<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="acttracking" rev="sh20i1">
<title>Interval tracking data structure</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Interval tracking data structure</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Interval tracking data
structure</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Learn about the interval tracking data structure as it is returned by the <b>GETINTVL</b>
rule array keyword.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>interval tracking (<indexterm>data structure</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>data structure (<indexterm>interval tracking</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<table id="interval_tracking_data_structure"><desc><p outputclass="summary">Table with three columns: Offset, length and description</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="7*"/><thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset</entry>
<entry>Length</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>00</entry>
<entry>14</entry>
<entry>Timestamp for the start of the interval. This is the time according to the adapter internal
clock when a START request was received for the <parmname>role_ID</parmname>. This time value is set
when the first START is received for the <parmname>role_ID</parmname> when the value of the start of
the interval is currently zero. The value of the start of the interval is set to zero at system
initialization, when a CLRDATA request is processed and tracking is stopped for the
<parmname>role_ID</parmname>, or when a higher level zeroize request is processed that also clears
the ACP tracking data. If a CLRDATA request is processed while tracking is enabled for the
<parmname>role_ID</parmname>, then a new timestamp is written for the start of the interval.<p>If
the value for the start of the interval is currently zero in the adapter, then this field is set to
0x00 bytes. If the value for the start of the interval is non-zero, the according timestamp is
returned in this field in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
generalized time format: "YYYYMMDDHHMMSS".</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>14</entry>
<entry>14</entry>
<entry>Timestamp for the end of the interval. This is the time according to the adapter internal
clock when a STOP request was received for the <parmname>role_ID</parmname> (after a previous
START). This time value is set to zero when a new START request is received for the
<parmname>role_ID</parmname>, at system initialization, when a CLRDATA request is processed, or when
a higher level zeroize request is processed that also clears the ACP tracking data. <p>If the value
for the end of the interval is currently zero in the adapter, then this field is set to 0x00 bytes.
If the value for the end of the interval is non-zero, the according timestamp is returned in this
field in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> generalized time
format: "YYYYMMDDHHMMSS".</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>28</entry>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>Counter (Big-Endian) of STOPPED intervals since the first START was issued for the
<parmname>role_ID</parmname>. This counter is incremented when a START has been issued after a
previous STOP that was issued during collection of ACP tracking data. At a high level, this counter
indicates the number of times that tracking for the <parmname>role_ID</parmname> was stopped and
then re-started. This count can be helpful when looking at audit logs to determine how many gaps
need to be accounted for. <p> This counter is not allowed to roll over. A value of 0xFFFFFFFF
indicates that this many or more gaps occurred. This counter is set to zero at system
initialization, when a CLRDATA request is processed, or when a higher level zeroize request is
processed that also clears the ACP tracking data.</p>
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
