<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_tblocksec">
<title>Trusted block sections</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Trusted block sections</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Trusted block sections</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>At the beginning of every trusted block is a trusted block header.
 </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>trusted block<indexterm>section format</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The header contains the following information:
<ul>
<li>A token identifier, which specifies if the token contains an external
or internal key-token</li>
<li>A token version number to allow for future changes</li>
<li>A length in bytes of the trusted block, including the length of
the header</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section><p>The trusted block header is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tblocksec/l0wskc02_zapgtblk_tab2"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_zapgtblk_tab2" pgwide="0" frame="all">
<title>Trusted block
header format</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Trusted block header format</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="38*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="40*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="216*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Token identifier (a flag that indicates token
type)
<dl compact="yes"><dlhead><dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Description</ddhd></dlhead>
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'1E'</ph></dt>
<dd>External trusted block token</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'1F'</ph></dt>
<dd>Internal trusted block token</dd></dlentry>
</dl></entry></row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Token version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the key-token structure in bytes.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
<section><p>Following the header, in no particular order, are trusted block sections. There are five
different sections defined, each identified by a one-byte section identifier (X'11' - X'15'). Two of
the five sections have subsections defined. A subsection is a tag-length-value (TLV) object,
identified by a two-byte subsection tag.</p></section>
<section><p>Only sections X'12' and X'14' have subsections defined; the other sections do not. A section and
its subsections, if any, are one contiguous unit of data. The subsections are concatenated to the
related section, but are otherwise in no particular order.</p></section>
<section><p>Section X'12' has five subsections defined (X'0001' - X'0005'). Section X'14' has two
subsections, (X'0001' and X'0002'). Of all the subsections, only subsection <ph>X'0001'</ph> of
section X'14' is required. Section X'14' is also required. </p></section>
<section><p>The trusted block sections and subsections are described in detail
in the following topics.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>
