<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_retcode4reasoncodes">
<title>Reason codes that accompany return code 4</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Reason codes that accompany return code 4</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Reason codes that accompany return code
4</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Reason codes that accompany return code 4</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>reason codes<indexterm>with return code 4</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>These codes are listed in <xref href="#l0wskc02_retcode4reasoncodes/l0wskc02_rcrc4"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_rcrc4" pgwide="1">
<title>Reason codes for return code 4</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Reason codes for return code 4</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="6*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="33*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Return code, decimal</entry>
<entry>Reason code, decimal (hex)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>001 (001)</entry>
<entry>The verification test failed. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>013 (00D)</entry>
<entry>The key token has an initialization vector and
the <synph><var>initialization_vector</var></synph> parameter value is nonzero.  The
verb uses the value in the key token.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>016 (010) </entry>
<entry>The <i>rule_array</i> and the <i>rule_array_count</i> are too small to contain the
complete result. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>017 (011) </entry>
<entry>The requested ID is not present in any profile
in the specified cryptographic hardware component. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>019 (013) </entry>
<entry>The financial PIN in a PIN block is not verified. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>158 (09E)</entry>
<entry>The verb did not process any key records. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>166 (0A6) </entry>
<entry>The control-vector is not valid because of parity
bits, anti-variant bits, inconsistent KEK bits or because bits 59
- 62 are not zero.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>179 (0B3)</entry>
<entry>The control-vector keywords in the <i>rule_array</i> are ignored. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>195 (C3)</entry>
<entry>The key or key-part rule keyword provided does not match the length
of the key in the enciphered key token. The output is based on the
length specified, and not on the actual key length.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>283 (11B) </entry>
<entry>The coprocessor battery is low. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>287 (11F) </entry>
<entry>The PIN-block format is not consistent. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>429 (1AD)</entry>
<entry>The digital signature is not verified.  The
verb completed its processing normally. </entry>
</row>

<row rev="sh20i2">
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>877 (36D)</entry>
<entry>The sub-CA certificate loaded has a later expiration (validity:NotAfter field) than its
issuer certificate.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>937 (3A9)</entry>
<entry>The UTF8 name compare was done via <apiname>memcmp</apiname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>945 (3B1)</entry>
<entry>The requested hash method differs from the hash method used when the certificate was loaded and activated.
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>963 (3C3)</entry>
<entry>The OA request requires currently unavailable resources. 
This is a transient condition. Please retry.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>1024 (400)</entry>
<entry>Sufficient shares have been processed to create
a new master key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>2039 (7F7) </entry>
<entry>At least one control vector bit cannot be parsed.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>2042 (7FA)</entry>
<entry>The supplied passphrase is not valid.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>2133 (855)</entry>
<entry>The <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph> value identifies one
or more PIN decimalization tables to be deleted that are not stored
on the coprocessor. All PIN tables that were requested to be deleted
are removed.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>2162 (872)</entry>
<entry>At least two of the key parts of a new operational or master key have
identical parts and a warning has been requested by the setting of an
appropriate access control point.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
</refbody></reference>
