<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="understand_symas" rev="sh16">
<title>Symmetric and asymmetric master keys</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Symmetric and asymmetric master keys</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Symmetric and asymmetric master
keys</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read the contained information on how <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> handles symmetric and asymmetric master
keys.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>master key<indexterm>symmetric</indexterm><indexterm>asymmetric</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>symmetric master key</indexterm>
<indexterm>asymmetric master key</indexterm>
<indexterm>AES-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>APKA-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>SYM-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>ASYM-MK</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p rev="sh21i1">Currently a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> node
has four master keys, namely AES, APKA, DES, and PKA. The master key sizes and their wrapping
methods are as shown in <xref href="#understand_symas/cca_master_keys" format="dita"/>.</p> 
<table rev="sh21i1" id="cca_master_keys" pgwide="0" frame="all"><title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> node wrapping methods</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> node
wrapping methods with three columns describing the master key, the key size and the wrapping
method</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Master key</entry>
<entry>Key size</entry>
<entry>Wrapping method</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>AES</b></entry>
<entry>32 bytes (256 bits)</entry>
<entry>AESKW</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>APKA</b></entry>
<entry>32 bytes
(256 bits)</entry>
<entry>AESKW</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>DES</b></entry>
<entry>24 bytes (168 bits)</entry>
<entry>Triple-DES</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>PKA</b></entry>
<entry>24 bytes (168 bits)</entry>
<entry>Triple-DES</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<p rev="sh21i1">The AES master key and the APKA master key are both 32-byte, 256-bit AES keys that wrap 
or unwrap keys using the ANS X9.102:2020 AESKW algorithm.</p>
<p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> incorporates the following sets
of master-key registers:</p>
<ul>
<li>The DES master-key register set is used to wrap and unwrap DES (symmetric) working keys.</li>
<li>The PKA master-key register set is used to wrap and unwrap RSA (asymmetric) private working
keys, or the object protection keys (OPKs) of the RSA working keys that have an OPK defined,
excluding private key sections X'30' and X'31', which have their OPKs wrapped and unwrapped by the
APKA master key.</li>
<li>The AES master-key register set is used to wrap and unwrap AES (symmetric) fixed-length, and AES
and HMAC variable-length, symmetric working keys.</li>
<li>The APKA master-key register set is used to wrap and unwrap the Object Protection Key (OPK) that
is itself used to wrap the key material of an Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) key or the OPK of
RSA private key sections X'30' and X'31'. ECC keys are asymmetric.</li>
</ul>
<p>The verbs that operate on the master keys permit you to specify a register set (with keywords
AES-MK, APKA-MK, SYM-MK and ASYM-MK). For DES and PKA master keys, if applications that modify these
master-key registers never explicitly select a register set, the master keys in the two register
sets are modified in the same way and contain the same keys. However, if at any time you modify only
one of the DES or PKA register sets, applications thereafter need to manage the two register sets
independently. </p>
</conbody>
</concept>
