<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="wsck_ccamkey" rev="sh16i1">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> Master Key administration:
choosing the right method or tool</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Master Key administration</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Master Key administration: choosing the
right method or tool</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read the provided information why it is important to choose the correct tool to
administer your <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cryptocoprocs"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>master key<indexterm>administration</indexterm><indexterm>methods or
tools</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>administration of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
master key<indexterm>methods or tools</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> master
key<indexterm>administration</indexterm><indexterm>methods or tools</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>There are several factors that influence the procedure of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> master key administration:</p>
<ul compact="yes">
<li>security requirements</li>
<li>regulatory requirements</li>
<li>characteristics of your environment</li>
</ul>
<p>Available methods are listed in <xref href="#wsck_ccamkey/mkey_admin_methods" format="dita"
/>.</p>
<table id="mkey_admin_methods" pgwide="1">
<title>Tools and methods for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
master key administration</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Table with four columns describing available methods for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> master key administration.</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="9*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="17*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="17*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="17*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Method</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Security</entry>
<entry>Environment</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/></entry>
<entry>
<ul>
<li>A <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/> can be used to change the
master keys for all the CEX*C adapters in a group, across multiple domains and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm_z_systems"/>.</li>
<li>TKE administration is a fully tested and supported solution for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/> installations.</li>
</ul>
</entry>
<entry>
<ul>
<li>The TKE workstation is typically deployed in a secure location.</li>
<li>A TKE can leverage smart card credentials for a fully standards compliant remote administration
solution.</li>
</ul>
</entry>
<entry>
<ul>
<li>No extra pieces are needed to support TKE administration, the required daemon is installed by
default from the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> rpm as an
automated service.</li>
<li>TKE administration does not conflict with any key storage approach you might use, but
application use of key storage should be taken into account as you update keys.</li>
</ul>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zos"/> exchange method </entry>
<entry>An operator temporarily assigns the domains to a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zos"/> partition, where ICSF user IDs and
configuration panels are used to configure the master keys.</entry>
<entry>Since the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zos"/> tool is a host
utility the users' key parts are potentially exposed: <ul>
<li>in host memory on the system where they are entered</li>
<li>on the network channel for communication to the z host</li>
<li>in host memory for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zos"/>
partition</li>
</ul>
</entry>
<entry>There is no conflict with any key storage approach you might use, but application use of key
storage should be taken into account as you update keys and re-assign domains. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>user application</entry>
<entry>A user application built to use the <synph><var>libcsulccamk.so</var></synph> library for
this purpose, which can be programmed to: <ul>
<li>Allocate a CEX*C by invoking the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"/> verb (see <xref
href="wskc_r_cra.dita#l0wskc02_cra"/>).</li>
<li>Change the master key.</li>
<li>Deallocate each adapter in the group before exiting, by invoking the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"/> verb (see <xref
href="wskc_r_crd.dita#l0wskc02_crd"/>).</li>
</ul></entry>
<entry>Security features would depend on the implementation, but may have host memory or
communication channel exposures.</entry>
<entry>Environment considerations would depend on the implementation.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> (included in <ph rev="sh18i2">RPM or DEB</ph>)</entry>
<entry>A general purpose simple utility that can be used to set the master keys. Keys are set one
part at a time to one card at a time, which has some implications. <note rev="sh18i2">If a domain on
a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cryptocoproc"/> is set to <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/>, you can perform master key
changes only on a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>. You cannot use
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> for this purpose.</note></entry>
<entry>Since <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> is a host utility that runs natively on the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> instance, a local terminal and
communication session are required. The users' key parts are potentially exposed: <ul>
<li>in host memory on the system where they are entered</li>
<li>on the network channel for communication to the z host</li>
<li>in host memory for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/>
partition</li>
</ul></entry>
<entry rev="sh18i2">While <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> is installed by default from the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> RPM, because of the simple nature of
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>, conflicts can occur in a multi-card environment. Especially, key
storage conflicts occurred in prior releases when loading a master key to multiple adapters. This
has been fixed as of  CCA 6.0  (see <xref href="wskc_c_fhk_chmk.dita#l0wskc02_fhk_chmk"/> ).</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</conbody>
</concept>
