<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_enc">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclenc"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclenc"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>)</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> verb to
encipher data using the DES cipher block chaining mode. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclenc"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclenc"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclenc"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>data<indexterm>enciphering</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> processing rule</indexterm>
<indexterm>processing rule<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CBC processing rule<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Cryptographic Unit Support Program (CUSP)<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Information Protection System (IPS)<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ANSI X9.23 processing rule<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>short blocks</indexterm>
<indexterm>trailing short blocks</indexterm>
<indexterm>padding method</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> supports the following
processing rules to encipher data. You choose the type of processing rule that the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/>
<ph>verb</ph> should use for the block chaining. <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Cipher block chaining (CBC)</dt>
<dd>In exact multiples of eight bytes.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Cryptographic Unit Support Program (CUSP)</dt>
<dd>CBC mode (cipher block chaining) that is compatible with <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm>’s CUSP and PCF products. The data need not be in exact multiples of eight bytes. The
ciphertext is the same length as the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Information Protection System (IPS)</dt>
<dd>CBC mode (cipher block chaining) that is compatible with <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm>’s IPS product. The data need not be in exact multiples of eight bytes. The ciphertext is
the same length as the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ANSI X9.23</dt>
<dd>For block chaining not necessarily in exact multiples of eight bytes. This process rule pads the
plaintext so that ciphertext produced is an exact multiple of eight bytes.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
<p>For more information about the processing rules, see <xref
href="wskc_r_encparameters.dita#l0wskc02_encparameters/l0wskc02_pcbc2"/> and <xref
href="wskc_c_apxcipm.dita#l0wskc02_apxcipm"/>.</p>
<p>The cipher block chaining (CBC) mode of operation uses an initial chaining vector (ICV) in its
processing. The ICV is XORed with the first eight bytes of plaintext before the encryption step and
thereafter, the 8-byte block of ciphertext just produced is XORed with the next 8-byte block of
plaintext and so on. This disguises any pattern that might exist in the plaintext.</p>
<p>The selection between single-DES encryption mode and triple-DES encryption mode is controlled by
the length of the key supplied in the <parmname>key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If a
single-length key is supplied, single-DES encryption is performed. If a double-length or
triple-length key is supplied, triple-DES encryption is performed.</p>
<p>To nullify the CBC effect on the first 8-byte block, supply eight bytes of zero. However, the ICV
might require zeros.</p>
<p>Cipher block chaining also produces a resulting chaining value called the output chaining vector
(OCV). The application can pass the OCV as the ICV in the next encipher call. This results in
<i>record chaining</i>.</p>
<p>Note that the OCV that results is the same, whether an Encipher or a Decipher <ph>verb</ph> was
invoked, assuming the same text, ICV, and key were used.</p>
<p>Short blocks are text lengths of between one and seven bytes. A short block can be the only
block. Trailing short blocks are blocks of between one and seven bytes that follow an exact multiple
of eight bytes. For example, if the text length is 21, there are two 8-byte blocks, and a trailing
short block of five bytes. </p>
<p>An alternative method is to pad the plaintext and produce a ciphertext that is longer than the
plaintext. The plaintext can be padded with up to eight bytes using one of several padding
methods. This padding produces a ciphertext that is an exact multiple of eight bytes in length.</p>
<p>If the cleartext is already a multiple of eight, the ciphertext can be created using any
processing rule.</p>
<p>Because of padding, the returned ciphertext length is longer than the provided plaintext.
Therefore, the <parmname>text_length</parmname> parameter  is modified. The returned ciphertext
field should be eight bytes longer than the length of the plaintext to accommodate the maximum
amount of padding. </p>
<note type="attention"> If you lose the data-encrypting key under which the data (plaintext) is
enciphered, the data enciphered under that key (ciphertext) cannot be recovered.</note>
<note>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>