<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="dpnuparameters" rev="sh15">
<title>Parameters</title><titlealts>
    <navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpnu"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpnu"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpnu"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpnu"
/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ENCRYPT</indexterm>
<indexterm>BCD</indexterm>
<indexterm>CLEAR</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. This value must be 0 or 1.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Keywords that provide control information to the verb. The keywords are left-aligned in an 8-byte
field and padded on the right with blanks. The keywords must be in contiguous storage. The
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> keywords are described in <xref href="#dpnuparameters/dpnu_table"/>.
<table id="dpnu_table" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpnu"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpnu"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="14*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PIN Block output selection keyword</i></b> (One, optional)
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>EPB</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Return an encrypted PIN block (EPB).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>NOEPB</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Do not return an encrypted PIN block (EPB). This is the
default.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_p_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>card_p_data</parmname> parameter. The value must
be in the range 2 - 256.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_p_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The time-invariant card data (CDp), determined by the card issuer, which is used to differentiate
between multiple cards for one account.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_t_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>card_t_data</parmname> parameter. The value must
be in the range 2 - 256.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_t_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The time-sensitive card data, determined by the card issuer, which, together with the
account number and the <parmname>card_p_data</parmname> parameter, specifies an individual card. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>encrypted_PIN_block_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> parameter. The
value must be 32.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The 32-byte input encrypted PIN block in PBF-1 format.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_block_MAC_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PIN_block_MAC</parmname> parameter. The value must
be 8.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_block_MAC</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The 8-byte CMAC of the encrypted PIN block.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PRW_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If the
<parmname>PRW_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise, the
value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The identifier of the PRW generating key. The key identifier is an operational token or the key
label of an operational token in key storage. The key algorithm of this key must be AES, the key
type must be PINPRW, the key usage fields must indicate GENONLY, CMAC, and DKPINOP.
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter. If the <parmname>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length
must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The identifier of the key that encrypts the input PIN block. The key identifier is an operational
token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. The key algorithm of this key must be
AES, the key type must be PINPROT, and the key usage fields must indicate DECRYPT, CBC, and DKPINOP.
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If
the <parmname>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise,
the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The identifier of the CMAC verification key. The key identifier is an operational token or the
key label of an operational token in key storage. The key algorithm of this key must be AES, the key
type must be MAC, and the key usage fields must indicate CMAC, VERIFY, and DKPINOP.
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter. If the <parmname>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length
must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The identifier of the key to wrap the new PIN block. The key identifier is an operational token
or the key label of an operational token in key storage. If the rule array indicates that no
encrypted PIN block is to be returned, this value is ignored. The key algorithm of this key must be
AES, the key type must be PINPROT, and the key usage fields must indicate ENCRYPT, CBC, and DKPINOP.
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If
the rule array indicates that no encrypted PIN block MAC is to be returned, this value must be 0.
<p>If the <parmname>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64.
Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The identifier of the key to generate the CMAC of the new PRW. The key identifier is an
operational token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. If the rule array
indicates that no encrypted PIN block MAC is to be returned, this parameter is ignored. The key
algorithm of this key must be AES, the key type must be MAC, and the key usage fields must indicate
GENONLY, CMAC, and DKPINOP.
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_reference_value_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PIN_reference_value</parmname> parameter. This
value must be 16. On output, it is set to 16.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_reference_value</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The calculated 16-byte PIN reference value.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_random_number_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PRW_random_number</parmname> parameter. The value
must be 4. On output, it is set to 4.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_random_number</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The 4-byte random number associated with the PIN reference value.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_encrypted_PIN_block_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>new_encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> parameter. If
the rule array indicates that no new encrypted PIN block should be returned, this parameter must be
zero. Otherwise, the parameter should be at least 32.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The new 32-byte encrypted PIN block. If the rule array indicates that no new encrypted PIN block
should be returned, this parameter is ignored.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_PIN_block_MAC_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>new_PIN_block_MAC</parmname> parameter. If the
rule_array indicates that no new_PIN_block_MAC should be returned, this value must be zero.
Otherwise, it must be at least 8.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_PIN_block_MAC</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
The new 8-byte encrypted MAC of the new PIN block. If the rule array indicates that no new
encrypted PIN block should be returned, this parameter is ignored.
</pd>
</plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
