<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_vparms">
<title>Parameters common to all verbs</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters common to all verbs</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters common to all verbs for
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>A parameter is an address pointer to the associated variable in
application program storage.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>verb<indexterm>common parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>return_code parameter</indexterm>
<indexterm>reason_code parameter</indexterm>
<indexterm>exit_data_length parameter</indexterm>
<indexterm>exit_data parameter</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The first four parameters (<parmname>return_code</parmname>, <parmname>reason_code</parmname>,
<parmname>exit_data_length</parmname>, and <parmname>exit_data</parmname>) are the same for all
verbs:</p>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>return_code </pt>
<pd>The return code specifies the general result of the verb. <xref
href="wskc_r_aprec.dita#l0wskc02_aprec"/> lists the return codes.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>reason_code </pt>
<pd>The reason code specifies the result of the verb that is returned to the application program.
Each return code has different reason codes assigned to it that indicate specific processing
problems. <xref href="wskc_r_aprec.dita#l0wskc02_aprec"/> lists the reason codes.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>exit_data_length </pt>
<pd>A pointer to an integer value containing the length of the string (in bytes) that is returned by
the <parmname>exit_data</parmname> value. This parameter should point to a value of zero, to ensure
compatibility with any future extension or other operating environment.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>exit_data </pt>
<pd>The data that is passed to an installation exit. Exits are not supported and no exit data is
allowed in this parameter. <note type="other" othertype="Restriction">The
<parmname>exit_data_length</parmname> and <parmname>exit_data</parmname> variables must be declared
in the parameter list. The <parmname>exit_data_length</parmname> parameter should be set to
<ph>B'0'</ph>.</note></pd></plentry>
</parml>
</conbody></concept>