<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_multico" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Multi-coprocessor selection capabilities</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Multi-coprocessor selection capabilities</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Multi-coprocessor selection capabilities
for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Multi-coprocessor selection capabilities allow you to employ more than one <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>multi-coprocessor selection functions</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>AUTOSELECT option</indexterm>
<indexterm>master key coherence</indexterm>
<indexterm>AUTOSELECT option<indexterm>master key coherence</indexterm><indexterm>ignoring
verbs</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor selection</indexterm>
<indexterm>default <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
coprocessor</indexterm>
</keywords>
<?Pub Caret 167?>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>When more than one <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor
is installed, an application program can control which <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor to use. It can explicitly
select a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor, it can
switch on the AUTOSELECT option, or it can optionally employ the default <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor. </p>
<section id="l0wskc02_autoselect">
<title>AUTOSELECT option</title>
<p>If switched on, the AUTOSELECT option overrides an explicit <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor selection and default <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor selection for all verbs (except
those listed in <xref href="wskc_c_multico.dita#l0wskc02_multico/l0wskc02_ignore"/>).</p>
<p>When the AUTOSELECT option is switched on, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor to be used by a verb will be
selected by the operating system (the Linux device driver) from the set of available <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors, including any coprocessors
loaded with <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> user defined function
(UDX) code. The Linux device driver chooses a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor based on a policy for load
balancing.</p>
<p>To switch on the AUTOSELECT option, use the  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> verb (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"/>). Alternatively, the AUTOSELECT option
can be switched on at program start by setting the environment variable CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER to the
value <codeph>DEV-ANY</codeph>. For
example:<codeblock>export CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER=DEV-ANY</codeblock>To switch off the AUTOSELECT
option, use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> verb (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"/>). </p>
</section>
<section>
<title>Master key coherence for AUTOSELECT</title>
<p>When using the AUTOSELECT option, all <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors accessible by the operating
system must have the same state. In particular, they must be configured with the same master key as
appropriate for the services in use. For example, if your application uses only DES functions and
you enable AUTOSELECT, then the SYM-MK should be the same across all accessible <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors. If you use any RSA functions
from PKA verbs, then the ASYM-MKs must be the same. For AES usage the AES-MKs must match, and for
ECC the APKA-MK must match.</p>
</section>
<section id="l0wskc02_ignore">
<title>Verbs that ignore AUTOSELECT</title>
<p>The following verbs ignore the AUTOSELECT option and use the explicitly selected or default
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor instead. These verbs
act as if the AUTOSELECT option does not exist, acting exactly as they did in prior releases in
which AUTOSELECT was not present.</p>
<table id="ignore">
<title>Verbs that ignore AUTOSELECT</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Verbs that ignore AUTOSELECT</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="15*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="83*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Verb</entry>
<entry>Explanation</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>CSUACFQ</entry>
<entry>When querying <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"
/> coprocessor state it is important to retrieve data from the explicitly queried <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>CSUARNT</entry>
<entry>When testing adapter health it is also important to receive explicit
results.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>CSNDRKL, CSNDRKD</entry>
<entry>Listing and managing the retained keys for a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor requires dealing with
explicitly selected <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors.
Note that it is specifically not recommended to use any retained key functions (such as choosing to
use retained keys with PKA verbs) when AUTOSELECT is active. By their very nature retained keys are
tied to the specific <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor
where they were created</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>CSNBMKP</entry>
<entry>Managing the Master Keys for a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor also requires explicit
allocation and de-allocaton to achieve expected results.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>HOST-only verbs</entry>
<entry>Some verbs are not impacted by AUTOSELECT simply because they never use the
CCA coprocessor. These verbs take actions that do not involve secrets guarded by the card Master
Keys. These include:
<lines>
CSUACFV, CSNBKSI, CSNBCVG, CSNBKTB, CSNBKTB2, CSNBKTP,
CSNBKTP2, CSNBT31O, CSNBT31R, CSNBT31P, CSNBAKRC,
CSNBAKRD, CSNBAKRL, CSNBAKRR, CSNBAKRW, CSNBKRC,
CSNBKRD, CSNBKRL, CSNBKRR, CSNBKRW, CSNDKRC, CSNDKRD,
CSNDKRL, CSNDKRR, CSNDKRW, CSNDPKB, CSNDPKX</lines></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>CPACF using verbs</entry>
<entry>Some verbs use the CPACF according to configuration of appropriate environment
variables. These verbs will ignore AUTOSELECT if told to use CPACF. These
include:
<lines rev="sh18i2">
CSNBOWH, CSNBDEC, CSNBENC, CSNBSAE, CSNBSAD, CSNBMGN, 
CSNBMVR</lines></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
<section>
<title>Explicit <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor
selection</title>
<p>To explicitly select a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
coprocessor, use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> verb
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"/>). This verb allocates a
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor loaded with the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> software. When a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor is allocated and the AUTOSELECT
option is not on, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> requests are
routed to it until it is de-allocated. Similarly, when a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor is allocated and one of the
verbs that ignore the AUTOSELECT option is used, then <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> requests are routed to it until it is
de-allocated.</p>
<p>To de-allocate an allocated coprocessor, use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> verb (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"/>). When a coprocessor is not allocated
(either before an allocation occurs or after the cryptographic resource is de-allocated), requests
are routed to the default coprocessor unless the AUTOSELECT option is on.</p>
<note>The scope of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> and the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> verbs is to a thread. A
multi-threaded application program can use all of the installed <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors simultaneously. A program
thread can use only one of the installed coprocessors at any given time, but it can switch to a
different installed coprocessor as needed. To perform the switch, a program thread must deallocate
an allocated cryptographic resource, if any, and then it must allocate the desired cryptographic
resource. The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> verb fails if a
cryptographic resource is already allocated.</note>
</section>
<section id="ListingCCACoprocessors">
<title>Listing <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
coprocessors</title>
<p>With the first call to <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> from a
process, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> associates coprocessor
designators CRP01, CRP02, and so on with specific coprocessors. The host determines the total number
of coprocessors installed through a call to the coprocessor device driver. Adding, removing, or
relocating coprocessors can alter the number associated with a specific coprocessor. The host then
polls each coprocessor in turn to determine which ones contain the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> firmware. As each coprocessor is evaluated,
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> host associates the
identifiers CRP01, CRP02, and so forth to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors. <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors loaded with a UDX extension
are also assigned a CRP<varname>nn</varname> identifier.</p>
<p>For a specific device driver, names such as these are used: CRP<varname>nn</varname>,
card<varname>nn</varname>, AP<varname>nn</varname>, and so forth, where the <varname>nn</varname>
values normally do not match (for example, some start with 0, others start with 1).</p>
<p rev="sh20i2">To determine the coprocessor type of a card (one out of CEX4C through CEX7C), use
one of these methods:</p>
<ul>
<li>Invoke the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> verb (see <xref
href="wskc_r_cfq_2_or_3.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_2_or_3"/>).</li>
<li>Use the <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname> command (see <xref
href="wskc_c_setup_sysfs.dita#l0wskc02_setup_sysfs"/>).</li>
<li> Use the <synph><kwd>hwtype</kwd></synph> attribute of your cryptographic devices in sysfs (see
the version of <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and Commands</cite>, that applies to your
distribution).</li>
<li>Run the <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utility installed with the RPM, using option
<cmdname>-x</cmdname> (<cmdname>panel.exe -x</cmdname>), to get a quick summary of cards available
and their status. See <xref href="wskc_c_panelexe.dita#l0wskc02_panelexe"/>.</li>
<li>Run <cmdname>ivp.e</cmdname>, another utility installed with the RPM, which gives more detailed
information about each card available. See <xref href="wskc_c_utilities.dita#l0wskc02_utilities"
/>.</li>
</ul>
<p>Note that the mapping of logical card identifiers such as CRP01 and CRP02 to physical cards in
your machine is not defined. This is because the mapping can change depending on the machine and its
configuration. If your application needs to identify specific coprocessor cards, you can do one of
the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> verb (see <xref
href="wskc_r_cfq.dita#l0wskc02_cfq"/>) with the STATCARD or STATCRD2 <parmname>rule_array</parmname>
keyword</li>
<li>Use the <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utility program with option -x, in order to read a card's serial number (see
<xref href="wskc_c_panelexe.dita#l0wskc02_panelexe"/>).</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section>
<title>Default <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessor</title>
<p>The selection of a default device occurs with the first <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> call to a coprocessor. When the default
device is selected, it remains constant throughout the life of the thread. Changing the value of the
environment variable after a thread uses a coprocessor does not affect the assignment of the default
coprocessor. If a thread with an allocated coprocessor ends without first de-allocating the
coprocessor, excess memory consumption results. It is not necessary to deallocate a cryptographic
resource if the process itself ends. It is suggested only if individual threads end while the
process continues to run.</p>
<p>You can alter the default designation by explicitly setting the CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER environment
variable. This is accomplished by issuing following
command:<codeblock>export CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER=CRP<varname>xx</varname></codeblock>Replace
CRP<varname>xx</varname> with the identifier for the resource you wish to use, such as CRP02. <ph
rev="shd3">The rpm limits the maximum value of <varname>xx</varname> such that CRP01 through CRP08
are the valid identifiers for the default coprocessor (limited by the number of coprocessors
actually configured).</ph></p>
<p>When cards of multiple types (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/>) are active in the same system, note
the following:</p>
<ul>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> library detects <ph
rev="shd3"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/></ph> adapters and
intermingle them in the CRP<varname>xx</varname> adapter instance list. This is a list of all
available adapters, in the order that they were discovered by the device driver.</li>
<li rev="shd3">The default adapter will be the lowest numbered <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> instance, that is, the newest adapter
level, found by the device driver. For example, if the ordered discovery list is: [CEX3C, CEX4C,
CEX3C, CEX4C], the default adapter will be the first CEX4C.</li>
<li>A user can specify the proper CRP<varname>xx</varname> number to allocate and work with any card
(<ph rev="shd3"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/></ph>) .</li>
<li>For a specific device driver, names such as these are used: CRP<synph><var>nn</var></synph>,
card<varname>xx</varname>, AP<varname>xx</varname>, and so forth, where the <varname>xx</varname>
values normally do not match (for example, some start with 0, others start with 1).</li>
</ul>
<?Pub Caret 39?>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002305?>
