<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_appdeptcs" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"></keyword> verb</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"></keyword></navtitle><?Pub
Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verb</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>This verb extracts the customer-entered PIN from the input
PIN block.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"></keyword>)<indexterm>extraction
rules</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>It extracts the PIN from the input PIN block according to the following
rules:  <ul>
<li>If the input PIN block format is ANSI X9.8, ISO format 0, VISA format 1, VISA format 4, ECI
format 1, ISO format 1, ISO format 2,  ISO format 3, <ph rev="sh20i1">ISO format 4</ph>, VISA format
2, <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> Encrypting PINPAD format, or ECI format 3 and, if the
specified PIN length is less than 4, the verb sets a reason code to reject the operation. If the
specified PIN length is greater than 12, the operation proceeds to normal completion with
unpredictable contents in the output PIN block. Otherwise, the verb extracts the PIN according to
the specified length.</li>
<li>If the input PIN block format is VISA format 3,  the specified
delimiter (padding) determines the PIN length. The search starts at
the leftmost digit in the PIN block. If the input  PIN block format
is 3624, the specification of a PIN extraction method for the 3624
is supported through <i>rule_array</i> keywords.  If no PIN extraction
method is specified in the <i>rule_array</i>, the specified delimiter
(padding) determines the PIN length.</li>
<li>If the input PIN block format is 3621,  the specification of a
PIN extraction method for the 3621 is supported through <i>rule_array</i> keywords.
If no PIN extraction method is  specified in the <i>rule_array</i>,
the specified delimiter (padding) determines the PIN length.</li>
<li>If the input block format is ECI format 2, the PIN is always the
leftmost 4 digits.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>If the maximum PIN length allowed by the output PIN block is shorter
than the extracted PIN, only the leftmost digits of the extracted
PIN that form the allowable maximum length are placed in the output
PIN block. The PIN length field in the output PIN block, it if exists,
specifies the allowable maximum length.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002767?>
