<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept id="acodas_xmp_acp" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16">
<title>Access control point list - data structure example</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>ACP list - data structure sample</navtitle>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Access control point list - data
structure example</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>View an example of an access control point list together with explanations of the
contents.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>access control point list<indexterm>data structure example</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>data structure example of an ACP list</indexterm>
<indexterm>ACP list<indexterm>data structure example</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p><xref href="#acodas_xmp_acp/acp_list_sample" format="dita"/> shows the contents of a sample
access control point list.</p>
<fig id="acp_list_sample">
<title>Access-control-point list example</title>
<codeblock>
00 02 00 00 00 00 01 17 00 23 00 00 f0 ff ff ff   .........#......
ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff   ................
ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff 02   ................
00 02 17 00 03 00 00 8f 99 fe                     ..........
</codeblock>
</fig>
<p> The access-control-point list contains the following data fields: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 02</dt>
<dd>The number of segments of data in the access control point list. In this list, there are two
discontiguous segments of access control points. One starts at access-control point 0, and the other
starts at access control point X'200'.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 00</dt>
<dd>A reserved field, which must be filled with zeros.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 00</dt>
<dd>The number of the first access-control point in this segment.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>01 17</dt>
<dd>The number of the last access control point in this segment. The segment starts at access
control point 0, and ends with access control point X'0117', which is decimal 279.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 23</dt>
<dd>The number of bytes of data in the access control points for this segment. There are X'23'
bytes, which is 35 decimal.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 00</dt>
<dd>A reserved field, which must be filled with zeros.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>F0 FF FF FF ... FF FF (35 bytes)</dt>
<dd>The first set of access control points, with one bit corresponding to each point. Thus, the
first byte contains bits 0-7, the next byte contains 8-15, and so on.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>02 00</dt>
<dd>The number of the first access control point in the second segment.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>02 17</dt>
<dd>The number of the last access control point in this segment. The segment starts at access
control point X'200' (decimal 512), and ends with access control point X'217' (decimal 535).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 03</dt>
<dd>The number of bytes of data in the access control points for this segment. There are 3 bytes for
the access control points from 512 through 535.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 00</dt>
<dd>A reserved field, which must be filled with zeros.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>8F 99 FE</dt>
<dd>The second set of access control points, with one bit corresponding to each point. Thus, the
first byte contains the bits 512-519, the second byte contains bits 520-527, and the third byte
contains bits 528-535.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p rev="sh18i2">For a specific role, you can display the ACP segments using the
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>, as shown in <xref href="wskc_acodas_role_acp.dita#acodas_role_acp"/>
.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003873?>
