<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_kyt2">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/>)</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> verb to
generate or verify a secure, cryptographic verification pattern (also referred to
as a key-check value) for <ph rev="sh21i1">AES, DES,
and HMAC keys</ph> contained in a variable-length symmetric key-token. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key verification pattern</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>A key to test can be in the clear, <ph rev="sh21i1"> encrypted under the master key, or
encrypted under a key-encrypting key.</ph> In addition, the verb permits you to test the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> master keys. Keywords in the
<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameter specify whether the verb generates or verifies a
verification pattern. See <xref href="wskc_c_keyverm.dita#l0wskc02_keyverm"/>.</p>
<p>When the verb tests a verification pattern against a key, you must supply the verification
pattern from a previous call to <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"
/>. This verb returns the verification result in the return code and reason code.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES, CCA key tokens may be external and internal, fixed-length (versions 00 or 01) tokens, or external
variable-length tokens with a DESUSECV key.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For HMAC, CCA key tokens are external and internal variable-length (version 05) key tokens.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">External TR-31 key blocks may contain a DES, AES, or HMAC key. DES key blocks may be wrapped with a
DES or AES key-encrypting key. AES and HMAC key blocks must be wrapped with an AES key-encrypting key.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">DES wrapped key blocks (key block protection method VARXOR-A, VARDRV-B, and VARXOR-C) contain DES keys. 
AES wrapped key blocks (VARDRV-D) may contain DES, AES, or HMAC keys.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">Clear key tokens are not supported.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">You can also use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> verb to return the key length of an
AES or DES key in a secure key token. The information is returned in the
<parmname>verification_pattern</parmname> parameter.</p>
<note>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>
