<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_despk92">
<title>PKA92 key format and encryption process</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>PKA92 key format and encryption process</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): PKA92 key format and encryption
process</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyg"/> and the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/> <ph>verbs</ph> optionally support
a <synph><kwd>PKA92</kwd></synph> method of encrypting <ph>a DES key</ph> with an RSA
public key. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>PKA92 key format and encryption process</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>This format is adapted from the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> Transaction Security
System (TSS) 4753 and 4755 product's implementation of <synph><kwd>PKA92</kwd></synph>. The verbs do
not create or accept the complete PKA92 AS key token as defined for the TSS products. Rather, the
verbs support only the actual RSA-encrypted portion of a TSS PKA92 key token, the <i>AS External Key
Block</i>.</p>
<p><b>Forming an external key block</b> -  The PKA96
implementation forms an AS External Key Block by RSA-encrypting a
key block using a public key. The key block is formed by padding the
key record detailed in <xref href="#l0wskc02_despk92/l0wskc02_pka92kr"/> with zero bits
on the left, high-order end of the key record. The process completes
the key block with three sub-processes: masking, overwriting, and
RSA encrypting.</p>
<table id="l0wskc02_pka92kr">
<title>PKA96 clear DES key record</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">PKA96 clear DES key record</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="33*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="33*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="200*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3">Zero-bit padding to form a structure
as long as the length of the public key modulus. The implementation
constrains the public key modulus to a multiple of 64 bits in the
range of 512 - 1024 bits. Note that government export or import regulations
can impose limits on the modulus length. The maximum length is validated
by a check against a value in the Function Control Vector.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>005</entry>
<entry>Header and flags: <ph>X'01 0000 0000.'</ph></entry></row>
<row>
<entry>005</entry>
<entry>016</entry>
<entry>Environment Identifier (EID), encoded in ASCII.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>021</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>Control vector base for the DES key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>029</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>Repeat of the CV data at offset 021.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>037</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>The single-length DES key or the left half of
a double-length DES key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>045</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>The right half of a double-length DES key or
a random number. This value is locally designated "K."</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>053</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>Random number, "IV."</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>061</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Ending byte, <ph>X'00.'</ph></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p><i>Masking Sub-process</i> -  Create a mask by
CBC encrypting a multiple of eight bytes of binary zeros using K as
the key and IV as the initialization vector as defined in the key
record at offsets 45 and 53. XOR the mask with the key record and
call the result PKR.</p>
<p><i>Overwriting Sub-process</i> -     Set the high-order
bits of PKR to <ph>B'01'</ph> and set the low-order bits to <ph>B'0110'</ph>.</p>
<p>XOR K and IV and write the result at offset 45 in PKR.</p>
<p>Write IV at offset 53 in PKR. This causes the masked and overwritten
PKR to have IV at its original position.</p>
<p><i>Encrypting Sub-process</i> -  RSA encrypt the
overwritten PKR masked key record using the public key of the receiving
node.</p>
<p><b>Recovering a key from an external key block</b> -
 Recover the encrypted DES key from an AS External Key Block by performing
decrypting, validating, unmasking, and extraction sub-processes.</p>
<p><i>Decrypting Sub-process</i> -  RSA decrypt the
AS External Key Block using an RSA private key and call the result
of the decryption PKR. The private key must be usable for key management
purposes.</p>
<p><i>Validating Sub-process</i> -  Verify the high-order
two bits of the PKR record are valued to <ph>B'01'</ph> and the low-order
four bits of the PKR record are valued to <ph>B'0110'</ph>. </p>
<p><i>Unmasking Sub-process</i> - Set IV to the value
of the eight bytes at offset 53 of the PKR record. Note that there
is a variable quantity of padding prior to offset 0. See <xref href="#l0wskc02_despk92/l0wskc02_pka92kr"/>.</p>
<p>Set K to the XOR of IV and the value of the eight bytes at offset
45 of the PKR record.</p>
<p>Create a mask equal in length to the PKR record by CBC encrypting
a multiple of eight bytes of binary zeros using K as the key and IV
as the initialization vector. XOR the mask with PKR and call the result
the key record.</p>
<p>Copy K to offset 45 in the PKR record.</p>
<p><i>Extraction Sub-process</i>.  Confirm that:
<ul>
<li>The four bytes at offset 1 in the key record are valued to <ph>X'0000 0000'</ph> .</li>
<li>The two control vector fields at offsets 21 and 29 are identical.</li>
<li>If the control vector is an IMPORTER or EXPORTER key class, the
Environment Identifier (EID) in the key record is not the same as
the EID stored in the cryptographic engine.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>The control vector base of the recovered key is the value at offset
21. If the control vector base bits 40 - 42 are valued to <ph>B'010'</ph> or <ph>B'110'</ph>,
the key is double length. Set the right half of the received key's
control vector equal to the left half and reverse bits 41 and 42 in
the right half.</p>
<p>The recovered key is at offset 37 and is either 8 or 16 bytes long
based on the control vector base bits 40 - 42. If these bits are valued
to <ph>B'000'</ph>, the key is single length. If these bits are valued
to <ph>B'010'</ph> or <ph>B'110'</ph>, the key is double length.</p>
</conbody></concept>
