<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_ktcdparameters">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptc"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptc"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptc"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RTCMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>RTNMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>ECC</indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA</indexterm>
<indexterm>VALIDATE</indexterm>
<indexterm>key_identifier_length parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key_identifier parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>APKA-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>ASYM-MK</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the <i>rule_array</i>
variable. This value must be 1 or 2.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The process rule for the verb. The keyword must be in eight bytes of contiguous storage,
left-aligned, and padded on the right with blanks. The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords
are described in <xref href="#l0wskc02_ktcdparameters/l0wskc02_ktcd_tab1"/>. <table
id="l0wskc02_ktcd_tab1" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="16*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="bottom" align="left">Keyword</entry>
<entry valign="bottom" align="left">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2" valign="top" align="left"><b><i>Token type</i></b> (One,
optional)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left">ECC</entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">Specifies that the key being changed is an ECC key. This keyword
was introduced with CCA 4.1.0.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>RSA</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key being changed is an RSA key or a trusted
block. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry>QSA</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key being changed is in a QSA key token such as CRYSTALS-Dilithium keys.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Reencipherment method</i></b>
(One, required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>RTCMK</entry>
<entry>If the <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> is an RSA key token, the verb
will change an RSA private key from encipherment with the old <ph>ASYM-MK</ph> to encipherment with
the current <ph>ASYM-MK</ph>. <p>If the <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> is a trusted block
token, the verb will change the trusted block's embedded MAC key from encipherment with the old
<ph>ASYM-MK </ph> to encipherment with the current <ph>ASYM-MK</ph>.</p>
<p>If the <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> is an ECC key token, the verb will change an ECC
private key from encipherment with the old <ph>APKA-MK</ph> to encipherment with the current
<ph>APKA-MK</ph>.</p><p rev="sh20i1">If the key_identifier is a CRYSTALS-Dilithium key token, the service will
change a CRYSTALS-Dilithium private key from encipherment with the
old ECC master key to encipherment with the current ECC master key.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>RTNMK</entry>
<entry><ph>Re-enciphers a private (internal) RSA or ECC key to the new
master key.</ph>
<p>A key enciphered under the new master key is not usable. It is expected that the user will use
this keyword (RTNMK) to take a preparatory step in re-enciphering an external key store that they
manage themselves to a new master-key, before the set operation has occurred. Note also that the new
master-key register must be full; it must have had the last key part loaded and therefore not be
empty or partially full (partially full means that one or more key parts have been loaded but not
the last key part).</p>
<p>The 'SET' operation makes the new master-key operational, moving it to the current master-key
register, and the current master-key is displaced into the old master-key register. When this
happens, all the keys that were re-enciphered to the new master-key are now usable, because the new
master-key is not 'new' any more, it is 'current'.</p>
<p>Because the RTNMK keyword is added primarily for support of externally managed key storage (see
<xref href="wskc_c_keysrule_zos.dita#l0wskc02_keysrule_zos"/>), it is not valid to pass a
<synph><var>key_identifer</var></synph> when the RTNMK keyword is used. Only a full internal key
token (encrypted under the current master-key) can be passed for re-encipherment with the RTNMK
keyword. When a key LABEL is passed along with the RTNMK keyword, the error return code 8 with
reason code 63 will be returned.</p><p>For more information, see <xref
href="wskc_c_keysrule.dita#l0wskc02_keysrule"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VALIDATE</entry>
<entry>Validate an internal PKA key token which is under the current master key (same processing as
RTNMK without checking the new master key or actually re-enciphering the token).</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>key_identifier</parmname> parameter. The maximum size is <ph rev="sh20i1">6500</ph> 
bytes.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Contains an internal RSA key-token, ECC key-token, <ph rev="sh20i1">CRYSTALS-Dilithium
token,</ph> or an active trusted block, or a key label identifying such a key-record in PKA
key-storage. The master-key enciphered data within the RSA key-token or trusted block is securely
reenciphered under the current PKA master key, and any such key token records are stored in PKA
key-storage. The master-key enciphered OPK contained in an RSA private-key section with section
identifier of X'30' or X'31' is securely reenciphered under the current APKA master key, and any
such key token records are stored in AES key-storage. The enciphered OPK of an ECC private key-token
is securely reenciphered under the current APKA master key. ECC key token records are stored in PKA
key-storage.
<p rev="sh20i1">If the key token is a CRYSTALS-Dilithium key token, the private key within the token is securely
reenciphered under the current ECC master key.</p></pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
