<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_setupilzdd" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Installing and loading the cryptographic device driver</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Installing and loading the cryptographic device driver</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Installing and loading the cryptographic
device driver</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The cryptographic device driver is included in the regular kernel package shipped with
your <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> distribution. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>cryptographic device driver<indexterm>installing</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>zcrypt<indexterm>installing</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>In earlier <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> distributions, the
cryptographic device driver is shipped as a single module called <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname>. In
more recent distributions, the cryptographic device driver is shipped as set of modules with the
<cmdname>ap</cmdname> module being the main module that triggers loading all required sub-modules.
There is, however, an alias name <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> that links to the <cmdname>ap</cmdname>
main module.</p>
<p rev="sh18i2">There might be distributions using kernel levels starting with 4.10, that have basic
cryptographic device driver support as part of the kernel (that is, the <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module
is already compiled in the kernel). In this case, the subsequently mentioned
<cmdname>lsmod</cmdname> and <cmdname>modprobe</cmdname> commands do not work as described. In
addition, the <parmname>domain</parmname> and <parmname>poll_thread</parmname> parameters are no
longer module parameters, but kernel parameters. In this case, you can change the values directly
via sysfs, or change as kernel parameters. Refer to the <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and
Commands</cite> for kernel 4.12 or later on the <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/developerworks/linux/linux390/development_docu_rollback.html"
format="html" scope="external">developerWorks</xref> website for further information.</p>
<p>For installations with a loadable cryptographic device driver, use the <cmdname>lsmod</cmdname>
command to find out if either the <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or the <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module is
already loaded.</p>
<p>If required, use the <cmdname>modprobe</cmdname> command to load the <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname>
or <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module. When loading the <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or
<cmdname>ap</cmdname> module, you can use the following optional module parameters:<parml>
<plentry>
<pt><codeph>domain=</codeph></pt>
<pd>specifies a particular cryptographic domain. By default, the device driver attempts to use the
domain with the maximum number of devices. <ph rev="sh18i2">To use all <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 6.0 functions, the domain must include at
least one CEX6C feature.</ph><p>After loading the device driver, use the <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname>
command with the <codeph>-b</codeph> option to confirm that the correct domain is used. If your
distribution does not include this command, see the version of <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and
Commands</cite> that applies to your distribution about how to use the sysfs interface to find out
the domain. This publication also provides more information about loading and configuring the
cryptographic device driver.</p><p>To change the domain, you must unload the <ph rev="shd3"
><cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or <cmdname>ap</cmdname>
</ph> module (see <xref href="wskc_c_unload_dd.dita#l0wskc02_unload_dd"/>) and reload it.</p><p
rev="sh18i2">You should also read the information presented in <xref
href="wskc_domain_selection.dita#wskc_domain_selection"/>.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt><codeph>poll_thread=</codeph></pt>
<pd>enables the polling thread for instances of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> on <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> and for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> instances that run in LPAR mode on an
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm"/> mainframe earlier than <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/z10"/>. <p>For <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> instances that run in LPAR mode on a
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/z10"/> or later mainframe, this setting
is ignored and AP interrupts are used instead.</p></pd>
</plentry>
</parml><?Pub Caret 229?></p>
<p>For more information about these module parameters, the polling thread, and AP interrupts, see
the version of <cite>Device Drivers, Features, and Commands</cite> that applies to your
distribution.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003073?>
