<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept id="acodas_xmp_role_ds" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16">
<title>Role data structure example</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Role data structure sample</navtitle>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Role data structure example</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>View an example of a role data structure  together with explanations of the
contents.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>access control data structures<indexterm>role data structure example</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>role data structure example</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p><xref href="#acodas_xmp_role_ds/role_struct_sample" format="dita"/> shows the contents of a
sample role data structure.</p>
<fig id="role_struct_sample">
<title>Role data structure example</title>
<codeblock>
01 00 00 66 2a 4e 65 77 20 64 65 66 61 75 6c 74   ....*New default
20 72 6f 6c 65 20 31 2a ab cd 00 00 44 45 46 41    role 1*....DEFA
55 4c 54 20 23 45 01 0f 17 1e 7c 00 00 02 00 00   ULT #E....|.....
00 00 01 17 00 23 00 00 f0 ff ff ff ff ff ff ff   .....#..........
ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff   ................
ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff ff 02 00 02 17 00   ................
03 00 00 8f 99 fe                                 ..........
</codeblock>
</fig>
<p> This structure contains the following data fields: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>01 00</dt>
<dd>The role structure version number.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 66</dt>
<dd>The length of the role structure, including the length field itself.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>*New default role 1*</dt>
<dd>The 20-character comment describing this role.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>AB CD</dt>
<dd>The checksum for the role. <note>The checksum value is not used.</note></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 00</dt>
<dd>A reserved field, which must be filled with zeros.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>DEFAULT</dt>
<dd>The Role ID for this role. The role in this example replaces the DEFAULT role.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>23 45</dt>
<dd>The required authentication strength field.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>01 0F</dt>
<dd>The lower time limit. X'01' is the hour, and X'0F' is the minute (decimal 15), so the lower time
limit is 1:15 AM, UTC.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>17 1E</dt>
<dd>The upper time limit. X'17' is the hour (decimal 23), and X'1E' is the minute (30), so the upper
time limit is 23:30 UTC.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>7C</dt>
<dd>This byte maps the valid days of the week for the role. The first (high order) bit represents
Sunday, the second represents Monday, and so on. Hex 7C is binary 01111100, and enables the weekdays
Monday through Friday.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>00</dt>
<dd>This byte is a reserved field. It must be zero.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Access-control-point list</dt>
<dd>The remainder of the role structure contains the access control point list described in <xref
href="wskc_acodas_xmp_acp.dita#acodas_xmp_acp"/>.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003873?>
