<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="inst_rpm_files" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Files in the RPM or DEB</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Files in the RPM or DEB</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Files in the RPM or DEB</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>These files are included in the RPM or DEB.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>CCA RPM<indexterm>contained files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CCA DEB<indexterm>contained files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>environment variable</indexterm>
<indexterm>RPM<indexterm>contained files</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DEB<indexterm>contained files</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>utilities<indexterm>panel.exe</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>panel.exe<indexterm>utility</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p> <dl><dlentry>
<dt>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.sh</dt>
<dd>Environment variables are created in this file. Customers should read this file for up-to-date
information. The key storage environment variables are added here. See <xref
href="wskc_c_kenvar.dita#l0wskc02_kenvar"/>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.csh</dt>
<dd>Environment variables are created in this file. Customers should read this file for up-to-date
information. The key storage environment variables are added here. See <xref
href="wskc_c_kenvar.dita#l0wskc02_kenvar"/>.
<note><synph><kwd>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.sh</kwd></synph> and
<synph><kwd>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.csh</kwd></synph> are exactly the same in what they do, but have
syntax differences. Only one of these two files is used, depending on the configuration of the
particular user running an application.</note></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</dt>
<dd rev="sh20i2">System initialization script that automatically starts the
<cmdname>catcher.exe</cmdname> daemon when Linux starts. There may be situations when You need to
explicitly start or stop the <cmdname>catcher.exe</cmdname> daemon. Select from one of the following
methods: <p>Start or stop the daemon from the command
line:</p><screen>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat start
/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat stop</screen><p>The preferred way
for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> distributions providing
<apiname>systemd</apiname> is to use the following commands:
<screen># systemctl start CSUTKEcat
# systemctl stop CSUTKEcat</screen></p><p>In older distributions
without <apiname>systemd</apiname>, you may be able to start or stop the
<cmdname>catcher.exe</cmdname> using <apiname>system
services</apiname>:<screen># service CSUTKEcat start
# service CSUTKEcat stop</screen></p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/etc/rc.d/rc2.d/S14CSUTKEcat</dt>
<dd>Link to: <synph><kwd>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</kwd></synph></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/etc/rc.d/rc3.d/S14CSUTKEcat</dt>
<dd>Link to: <synph><kwd>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</kwd></synph></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/etc/rc.d/rc5.d/S14CSUTKEcat</dt>
<dd>Link to: <synph><kwd>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</kwd></synph></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/TKECM.dat</dt>
<dd> </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/acpoints.dat</dt>
<dd> </dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/catcher.exe</dt>
<dd>Daemon executable that is controlled by the <filepath>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</filepath> script.
This daemon listens on TCP port 50003 for requests from the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/tke"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>) for secure commands to administer any
adapters configured as available to the system. See the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/> documentation for usage and capabilities.
<ph rev="sh20i2">You may need to adapt firewall or networking rules on your system to allow incoming
connections on port 50003.</ph><p>The daemon depends on libcsulcca.so and on the
<cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or <cmdname>ap</cmdname> device driver. While the daemon is running, it
has an open file handle to the <filepath>/dev/z90crypt</filepath> device node maintained by the
cryptographic module. Therefore, <cmdname>catcher.exe</cmdname> as a running process affects whether
you can load or unload <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or <cmdname>ap</cmdname> respectively. Use
<filepath>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</filepath> to start <cmdname>catcher.exe</cmdname> or to stop it if
you want to unload <cmdname>z90crypt</cmdname> or <cmdname>ap</cmdname> respectively. Remember that
TKE secure administration requires a running catcher.exe process.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/panel.exe</dt>
<dd>Utility: run with no arguments for help. See also <xref
href="wskc_c_utilities.dita#l0wskc02_utilities"/></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/ivp.e</dt>
<dd>Utility: run with no arguments for install verification. See also <xref
href="wskc_c_utilities.dita#l0wskc02_utilities"/></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/CCA/cnm/CNM.jar</dt>
<dd>jar archive of the  Java packaged version of the JNI interface, implementing the Java versions
of most <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> calls.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/cnm/CNMMK.jar</dt>
<dd>jar archive of the  Java packaged version of the JNI interface, implementing the Java versions
of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> calls for changing the Master
Key in the CEX*C</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/doc/README.txt</dt>
<dd> contains release-specific information, if applicable and pointers to helpful tools</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/doc/license.txt</dt>
<dd> entry point to license documentation identifying release and product specific terms</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/doc/</dt>
<dd>contains files that describe classes added by the JNI support for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>: <ul compact="yes">
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hni"/>.html</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/>.html</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnl"/>.html</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"
/>/include/csulincl.h</dt>
<dd rev="sh18i2">
C header file that is listing the names of the verbs and their parameters.
</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/usr/lib64/libcsulcca.so (RPM) and /usr/lib/libcsulcca.so (DEB)</dt>
<dd>This file is a link to the most recent library file, with name
<cmdname>libcsulcca.so.V.R.M</cmdname> where: V = version, R = release, and M = maintenance
level.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/usr/lib64/libcsulccamk.so (RPM) and /usr/lib/libcsulccamk.so (DEB)</dt>
<dd>This file is a link to the most recent library file, with name
<cmdname>libcsulccamk.so.V.R.M</cmdname> where: V = version, R = release, and M = maintenance
level.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>/opt/IBM/<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword>/keys/README.keys</dt>
<dd> </dd>
</dlentry></dl><?Pub Caret 2027?></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000006214?>
