<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc297">
<title>Trusted block organization</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Trusted block organization</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Trusted block organization</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>A trusted block is a concatenation of a header followed by an unordered
set of sections. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>trusted block sections</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Some elements are required, while others are optional. The data
structures of these sections are summarized in <xref href="#l0wskc297/l0wskc02_zapgtblk_tab1"/>.</p></section>
<table id="l0wskc02_zapgtblk_tab1" pgwide="0" frame="none">
<title>Trusted block sections and their
use</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Trusted block sections and their use</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3" colsep="0" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="0">
<entry valign="top">Section</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reference</entry>
<entry valign="top">Usage</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">Header</entry>
<entry valign="top"><xref href="wskc_r_tblocksec.dita#l0wskc02_tblocksec/l0wskc02_zapgtblk_tab2"/></entry>
<entry valign="top">Trusted block token header</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'11'</ph></entry>
<entry valign="top"><xref href="wskc_r_tbs11.dita#l0wskc02_tbs11/l0wskc02_srsas04"/></entry>
<entry valign="top">Trusted block public key</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'12'</ph></entry>
<entry valign="top"><xref href="wskc_r_tbs12.dita#l0wskc02_tbs12/l0wskc02_srsas06"/></entry>
<entry valign="top">Trusted block rule</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'13'</ph></entry>
<entry valign="top"><xref href="wskc_r_tbs13.dita#l0wskc02_tbs13/l0wskc02_srsas08"/></entry>
<entry valign="top">Trusted block name (key label)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'14'</ph></entry>
<entry valign="top"><xref href="wskc_r_tbs14.dita#l0wskc02_tbs14/l0wskc02_srsas10"/></entry>
<entry valign="top">Trusted block information</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'15'</ph></entry>
<entry valign="top"><xref href="wskc_r_tbs15.dita#l0wsck02_tbs15/l0wskc02_srsasff"/></entry>
<entry valign="top">Trusted block application-defined data</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section><p>Every trusted block starts with a token header.  The first byte
of the token header determines the key form:
<ul>
<li>An external header (first byte <ph>X'1E'</ph>), created by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtbc"/> verb</li>
<li>An internal header (first byte <ph>X'1F'</ph>), imported from an
active external trusted block by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpki"/> verb</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section><p>Following the token header of a trusted block is an unordered set
of sections. A trusted block is formed by concatenating these sections
to a trusted block header:
<ul>
<li>An optional public-key section (trusted block section identifier <ph>X'11'</ph>)
<p>The
trusted block trusted RSA public key section includes the key itself
in addition to a key-usage flag. No multiple sections are allowed.</p></li>
<li>An optional rule section (trusted block section identifier <ph>X'12'</ph>)
<p>A
trusted block can have zero or more rule sections.  </p>
<ol>
<li>A trusted block with no rule sections can be used by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpki"/> verbs.
 A trusted block with no rule sections can also be used by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdsv"/> verb,
provided there is an RSA public key section that has its key-usage
flag bits set to allow digital signature operations.</li>
<li>At least one rule section is required when the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkx"/> verb
is used to:
<ul>
<li>Generate an RKX key-token	</li>
<li>Export an RKX key-token	</li>
<li>Export a CCA DES key-token</li>
<li>Encrypt the clear generated or exported key using the provided
vendor certificate</li>
</ul></li>
<li>If a trusted block has multiple rule sections, each rule section
must have a unique 8-character Rule ID.</li>
</ol></li>
<li>An optional name (key label) section (trusted block section identifier <ph>X'13'</ph>)
<p>The
trusted block name section provides a 64-byte variable to identify
the trusted block, just as key labels are used to identify other CCA
keys. This name, or label, enables a host access-control system such
as <tm trademark="RACF" tmtype="reg">RACF</tm> to use the name to
verify that the application has authority to use the trusted block.
No multiple sections are allowed.</p></li>
<li>A required information section (trusted block section identifier <ph>X'14'</ph>)
<p>The
trusted block information section contains control and security information
related to the trusted block. The information section is required
while the others are optional. This section contains the cryptographic
information that guarantees its integrity and binds it to the local
system. No multiple sections are allowed.</p></li>
<li>An optional application-defined data section (trusted block section
identifier <ph>X'15'</ph>)
<p>The trusted block application-defined
data section can be used to include application-defined data in the
trusted block.  The purpose of the data in this section is defined
by the application.  CCA does not examine or use this data in any
way.  No multiple sections are allowed.</p></li>
</ul></p></section>
</refbody></reference>