<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_pcurequired">
<title>Required commands</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This verb requires the following commands to be enabled in the
active role based on the permissible key-type, <synph><kwd>IPINENC</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>OPINENC</kwd></synph>,
used in the decryption of the input PIN blocks.
<table><desc><p outputclass="summary">Required
commands for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="8*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="15*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>PIN-block encrypting key-type</entry>
<entry>Offset </entry>
<entry>Command</entry>
<entry>Comment</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>OPINENC</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry><ph>X'00BC'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>PIN Change/Unblock - change EMV PIN with OPINENC</cmdname></entry>
<entry>Required if either the <synph><var>new_reference_PIN_key</var></synph> or
the <synph><var>current_reference_PIN_key</var></synph> are permitted to be an <synph><kwd>OPINENC</kwd></synph> key
type.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>IPINENC</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry><ph>X'00BD'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>PIN Change/Unblock - change EMV PIN with IPINENC</cmdname></entry>
<entry>Required if either the <synph><var>new_reference_PIN_key</var></synph> or
the <synph><var>current_reference_PIN_key</var></synph> are permitted to be an <synph><kwd>IPINENC</kwd></synph> key
type.</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
<section><p>When a MAC-MDK or an ENC-MDK of key type <synph><kwd>DKYGENKY</kwd></synph> is specified with
control vector bits (19 - 22) of <ph>B'1111'</ph>, the <cmdname>Diversified Key Generate - DKYGENKY
- DALL</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0290'</ph>) must also be enabled in the active role.</p></section><section>
<note>A role with offset <ph>X'0290'</ph> enabled can also
use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg"/> verb with a <synph><kwd>DALL</kwd></synph> key.</note></section>
<section><p>An enhanced PIN security mode is available for extracting PINs from an  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm"/> 3624 encrypted PIN-block using the
<synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph> PIN-extraction method. This mode limits checking of the PIN to
decimal digits, and a minimum PIN length of 4 is enforced; no other PIN-block consistency checking
will occur. To activate this mode, enable the <cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname> command
(offset <ph>X'0313'</ph>) in the active role.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow PIN block format ISO-1</cmdname> access control is
enabled in the domain role, the PIN block format in the
<parmname>new_reference_PIN_profile</parmname>, <parmname>current_reference_PIN_profile</parmname>,
and <parmname>output_PIN_profile</parmname> parameters is not allowed to be ISO-1.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>
