<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_dectab">
<title>Decimalization tables</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Decimalization tables</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Decimalization tables</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Decimalization tables can be loaded in the coprocessors to restrict
attacks using modified tables. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>Decimalization tables</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The management of the tables requires a TKE workstation.</p>
<p>These verbs make use of the stored decimalization tables:
<ul>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpgn"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpgn"/>)</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"/>)</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"/>)</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpvr"/>)</li>
</ul></p>
<p>The <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Use stored decimalization table only</cmdname> (offset
<ph>X'0356'</ph>) access control point is used to restrict the use of the stored decimalization
tables. When the access control point is enabled, the table supplied by the verb will be compared
against the active tables stored in the coprocessor. If the supplied table does not match any of the
active tables, the request will fail.</p>
<p>A TKE workstation (Version 7.1 or later) is required to manage
the PIN decimalization tables. The tables must be loaded and then
activated. Only active tables are checked when the access control
point is enabled.</p>
<note>CCA routes work to all active coprocessors based on
workload. All coprocessors must have the same set of decimalization
tables for the decimalization table access control point to be effective.</note>
</conbody></concept>