<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="wskc_pka_pim" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh18i1">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpim"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpim"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/> verb to
manage the public key infrastructure stored inside the adapter. </shortdesc>
<?Pub Caret 135?>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpim"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpim"/></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKI<indexterm>public key infrastructure</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>public key infrastructure<indexterm>PKI</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>trust parent</indexterm>
<indexterm>X.509 certificate</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>You can manage a public key infrastructure inside the HSM to enable the use of standard-compliant
X.509 certificates with <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>. For such
certificates, you use a so-called trust parent, which is the certificate installed from the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/tke"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>). The trust parent is the root of the
trust chain of certificates that validate an operational X.509 certificate. The trust parent could
be an actual certificate authority (CA) root certificate, or it could be a sub-CA certificate. The
security is the same from the perspective of the adapter because the trust parent is installed under
dual control security by administrators of the adapter. </p>
<p>Thus, the management of trust parents requires dual-control administrative capabilities through
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>, while management of
operational certificates is similar to existing public key tokens. The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpim"/>OK interface to the public key
infrastructure (PKI) in the HSM allows some limited management and query functions that do not
require administrative authentication.</p>
<p>You supply the following information:</p>
<ul>
<li>To import a trust parent on the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>:<ul>
<li>Supply a X.509 certificate that is DER or PEM encoded (binary DER), 64-byte label to initiate
import.</li>
<li>Generate a hash of the X.509 certificate, a 64-byte label and a keyword to complete import.</li>
<li>A trust parent from a  <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> point
of view may actually be a sub-CA certificate when considered from the view of an external PKI:<ul>
<li>The distinction for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> is that a
trust parent:<ul>
<li>establishes a new line of trust in the HSM, much like a master wrapping key</li>
<li>is loaded under dual control: load of a trust root is protected by two access control points,
one for each phase of the process. </li>
</ul></li>
<li>Loading a sub-CA certificate as a trust parent is expected for some workflows: <ul>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> does not implement a full PKI
hierarchy internally. So any operational X.509 certificate should have its trust parent, namely the
certificate for the issuer, loaded to the HSM. </li>
<li>This is reasonable from a security perspective given that a sub-CA loaded as a trust parent has
been loaded by two administrators, and so the same level of trust is justified.</li>
</ul><note>As a PKI participant, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
cannot validate the signature on a sub-CA certificate loaded as a trust parent,  since the issuer
certificate is not part of the internal PKI.</note></li>
</ul></li>
<li>The HSM has no independent access to a network and thus:  <ul>
<li>cannot use NTP to maintain accurate timing for trust parent expiration</li>
<li>cannot interrogate external revocation lists. </li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li>To list trust parents (by label) :<ul>
<li>Supply a keyword. </li>
<li>Supply a buffer to hold the information.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000001751?>
