<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_kytusage">
<title>Usage notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Usage notes</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Usage notes for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The usage notes for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt"/>)<indexterm>usage notes</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>You can generate the verification pattern for a key when you generate
the key. You can distribute the pattern with the key and it can be
verified at the receiving node. In this way, users can ensure using
the same key at the sending and receiving locations. You can generate
and verify keys of any combination of key forms, that is, clear, operational
or external.</p></section>
<section><p>The parity of the key is not tested.</p></section>
<section><p>For triple-length keys, use <synph><kwd>KEY-ENC</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>KEY-ENCD</kwd></synph> with <synph><kwd>ENC-ZERO</kwd></synph>.
Clear triple-length keys are not supported.</p></section>
<section><p>In the Transaction Security System, <synph><kwd>KEY-ENC</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>KEY-ENCD</kwd></synph> both
support enciphered single-length and double-length keys. They use
the key-form bits in byte 5 of CV to determine the length of the key.
To be consistent, in this implementation of CCA, both <synph><kwd>KEY-ENC</kwd></synph> and <synph><kwd>KEY-ENCD</kwd></synph> handle
single- and double-length keys. Both products effectively ignore the
keywords, which are supplied only for compatibility reasons.</p></section>
<section><p>This document uses new names for two of the parameters. The former
names were misleading because they no longer reflected the use of
these parameters. The header file, <filepath>csulincl.h</filepath>,
continues to use the former names. See <xref href="wskc_r_kyt.dita#l0wskc02_kyt/kyt_parm_change"/>.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>