<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="vbtr31kp">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31kp"/>)</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31kp"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31kp"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kp"/> verb to disassemble the unencrypted header
of an external TR-31 key block into separate pieces of information. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31kp"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kp"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31kp"/>)</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The part of the header that is optional, called optional blocks,
is not disassembled. To obtain the contents of optional blocks, use
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kr"/> verb.  Neither verb performs any cryptographic services,
and both disassemble a key block in application storage. The validity
of the key block is verified as much as can be done without performing
any cryptographic services.</p></section>
<section><p>The TR-31 header fields that are disassembled into separate pieces
of information include a key block version ID,  key block length,
key usage, algorithm, mode of use, key version number, exportability,
and number of optional blocks. Except for the two length values, which
are returned as integers, the verb returns the field values as ASCII
strings. This format is used in the TR-31 key block itself. For more
information, see X9 TR-31 2010: <synph><var>Interoperable Secure Key Exchange
Block Specification for Symmetric Algorithms</var></synph>.</p></section>
<section><p>The following table summarizes the key blocks fields returned by
this verb:
<table pgwide="1" rowheader="firstcol"><desc><p outputclass="summary">Key blocks fields returned by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kp"/> verb</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="9*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="9*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="6*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="22*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">TR-31 field name</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Verb parameter</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Field or buffer string length in bytes</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Description of TR-31 field</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Key block version ID</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>key_block_version</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">1</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Identifies the method by which the key block
is cryptographically protected and the content layout of the block.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Key block length</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>key_block_length</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">4 (integer)</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Entire key block length after encoding (header,
encrypted confidential data, and MAC).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Key usage</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>key_usage</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">2</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Provides information about the intended function
of the protected key/sensitive data, such as data encryption, PIN
encryption, or key wrapping. Numeric values are reserved for proprietary
use (that is, not defined by TR-31).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Algorithm</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>algorithm</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">1</entry>
<entry colname="col4">The approved symmetric algorithm for which the
protected key may be used. Numeric values are reserved for proprietary
use.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Mode of use</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>mode</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">1</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Defines the operation for which the protected
key can perform. Numeric values are reserved for proprietary use.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Key version number</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>key_version_number</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">2</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Version number to optionally indicate that the
contents of the key block is a component (key part), or to prevent
re-injection of an old key. This field is a tool for enforcement of
local key change rules.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Exportability</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>exportability</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">1</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Defines whether the protected key may be exported.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Number of optional blocks</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><synph><var>num_opt_blocks</var></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col3">4 (integer)</entry>
<entry colname="col4">Defines the number of optional blocks included
in the key block. If this value is greater than zero, use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31kr"/> verb
to obtain the contents of the optional blocks.</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
<section><p>This verb does not perform cryptographic services on any key value.
You cannot use this verb to change a key or to change the control
vector related to a key.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>
