<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc154">
<title>Parameters</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>control information<indexterm>for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>APKA-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>key_identifier parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>random_number parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>verification_pattern parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>kek_key_identifier parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count </pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2"
rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of
elements in the <i>rule_array</i> variable. This
value must be 2, 3, 4, or 5.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array </pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2"
rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
Between two and five keywords provide control information
to the <ph>verb</ph>. The keywords must be in contiguous storage with
each of the keywords left-aligned in its own 8-byte location and padded
on the right with blanks. The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords are described
in <xref href="#l0wskc154/l0wskc02_kytextary"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_kytextary" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> control information</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> control information</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="16*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Process rule</i></b>  (One required)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>GENERATE</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Generate a verification pattern for
the key supplied in <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph>.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>VERIFY</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Verify a verification pattern for
the key supplied in <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph>.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Key or key-part rule</i></b>  (One required)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>KEY-ENC</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key supplied in <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> is
a single-length encrypted key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>KEY-ENCD</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key supplied in <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> is
a double-length encrypted key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>KEY-KM</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the target is the master key
register.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>KEY-NKM</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the target is the new master-key
register.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>KEY-OKM</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the target is the old master-key
register.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TOKEN</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Process an AES clear or encrypted key contained
in an AES key-token.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Master-key
selector</i></b>  (One, optional). Use only with <synph><kwd>KEY-KM</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>KEY-NKM</kwd></synph>,
or <synph><kwd>KEY-OKM</kwd></synph> keywords. The default is to process the <synph><kwd>ASYM-MK</kwd></synph> and <synph><kwd>SYM-MK</kwd></synph> key
registers, which must have the same key for the default to be valid.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>AES-MK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Process one of the AES master-key registers.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>APKA-MK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Process one of the APKA master-key registers.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>ASYM-MK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies use of only the asymmetric master-key
registers.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>SYM-MK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies use of only the symmetric master-key
registers.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2" valign="top" align="left"><b><i>Parity adjustment</i></b>  (One, optional) Not valid
with the <synph><kwd>AES-MK</kwd></synph> <i>Master-key selector</i> keyword.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left"><synph><kwd>ADJUST</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">Adjust the parity of test key to
odd before generating or verifying the verification pattern. The <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> field
itself is not adjusted.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left"><synph><kwd>NOADJUST</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">Do not adjust the parity of test
key to odd before generating or verifying the verification pattern.
This is the default.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2" valign="top" align="left"><b><i>Verification process rule</i></b>  (One, optional)
For the AES master key, <synph><kwd>SHA-256</kwd></synph> is the default. For the DES
or PKA master keys, the default is <synph><kwd>SHA-1</kwd></synph> if the first and
third parts of the key are different, or the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> <tm trademark="z/OS" tmtype="reg">z/OS</tm> method
if the first and third parts of the key are the same.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left"><synph><kwd>ENC-ZERO</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">Specifies use of the <term>encrypted zeros</term> method. Use only
with the <synph><kwd>KEY-CLR</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>KEY-CLRD</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>KEY-ENC</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>KEY-ENCD</kwd></synph> keywords. <p rev="sh20i1">A
4-byte verification pattern is generated for non-compliant-tagged tokens. A 3-byte verification
pattern is generated for compliant-tagged tokens. Required for triple-length TDES keys.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>MDC-4</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry><ph>Specifies use of the MDC-4 master key verification
method. Use only with the <synph><kwd>KEY-KM</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>KEY-NKM</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>KEY-OKM</kwd></synph> keywords. <ph>You
must specify one master-key selector keyword to use this keyword.</ph></ph></entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>SHA-1</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies use of the SHA-1 master-key-verification
method. Use only with the <synph><kwd>KEY-KM</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>KEY-NKM</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>KEY-OKM</kwd></synph> keywords.
You must specify one master-key selector keyword to use this keyword.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>SHA-256</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies use of the SHA-256 master-key-verification
method.</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_identifier </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to a string variable containing an internal or external key-token, a key label
that identifies an internal or external key-token record, or a clear key.<p>The key token contains
the key or the key part used to generate or verify the verification pattern.</p></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>random_number </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to a string variable containing a number the verb might use in the verification
process. When you specify the <synph><kwd>GENERATE</kwd></synph> keyword, the verb returns the
random number. When you specify the <synph><kwd>VERIFY</kwd></synph> keyword, you must supply the
number. With the <synph><kwd>ENC-ZERO</kwd></synph> method, the
<synph><var>random_number</var></synph> variable is not used but must be specified.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>verification_pattern </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to a string variable containing the binary verification pattern. When you specify
the <synph><kwd>GENERATE</kwd></synph> keyword, the verb returns the verification pattern. When you
specify the <synph><kwd>VERIFY</kwd></synph> keyword, you must supply the verification pattern. With
the <synph><kwd>ENC-ZERO</kwd></synph> method, the verification data occupies the high-order four
bytes, while the low-order four bytes are unspecified (the data is passed between your application
and the cryptographic engine but is otherwise unused). For more detail, see <xref
href="wskc_c_keyverm.dita#l0wskc02_keyverm"/>.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>kek_key_identifier </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to a string variable containing an operational key-token or the key label of an
operational key-token record containing an IMPORTER or EXPORTER key-encrypting key. If the
<synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> parameter does not identify an external key-token, the
contents of the <synph><var>kek_key_identifier</var></synph> variable should contain a null DES
key-token.</pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
