<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_syx">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/>)</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/> verb to transfer an application-supplied AES
DATA (version <ph>X'04'</ph>), DES DATA, or variable-length symmetric
key token key from encryption under the AES or DES master key to encryption
 under an application-supplied RSA public key or AES EXPORTER key. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DATA</indexterm>
<indexterm>HMAC</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The application-supplied key must be an AES, DES or HMAC internal
key token or the label of an AES or DES key token in the AES or DES
key storage file.</p></section>
<section><p>The verb can also export an HMAC key that is contained in an internal variable-length symmetric
key-token. The exported key is returned in an external variable-length symmetric key-token.</p></section>
<section><p>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/> verb to import a key exported using the AES or
DES algorithm, and the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi2"/> verb to import a key exported using
the HMAC algorithm.</p></section>
<section><p>Different methods are supported for formatting the output key.
Not all of these methods are available for each supported source key-token.
The <synph><kwd>AESKW</kwd></synph> key-formatting method uses an AES EXPORTER key-encrypting
key to wrap the output key before returning it in an external variable-length
symmetric key-token. The other key formatting methods each use a different
scheme to format the key before it is enciphered using an asymmetric
RSA public-key. The formatted and enciphered key is returned as an
opaque data buffer, and is not in a key token.</p>
<note rev="sh20i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>