<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_tbs14sss">
<title>Trusted block section <ph>X'14'</ph> subsections</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Trusted block section <ph>X'14'</ph> subsections</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Trusted block section <ph>X'14'</ph>
subsections</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Section <ph>X'14'</ph> has two information subsections (tag-length-value
objects) defined.  </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords><!--Insert <indexterm> tags here--></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>These subsections are summarized in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs14sss/l0wskc02_tbs14_ss"/>. See also
<xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>. </p>
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs14_ss" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Summary of trusted block information subsections</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Summary of trusted block information subsections</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1" align="left">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="41*"/>
<colspec colname="colspec0" colwidth="43*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="46*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="198*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Rule subsection tag</entry>
<entry colname="colspec0" valign="top">TLV object</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional or required</entry>
<entry valign="top">Comments</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0001'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Protection information</entry>
<entry valign="top">Required</entry>
<entry valign="top">Contains the encrypted 8-byte confounder and triple-length (24-byte) MAC key,
the ISO-16609 TDES CBC MAC value, and the MKVP of the PKA master key (computed using MDC4).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0002'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Activation and expiration dates</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional</entry>
<entry valign="top">Contains flags indicating whether or not the coprocessor is to validate dates,
and contains the activation and expiration dates that are considered valid for the trusted
block.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'14'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0001'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0001'</ph> of the trusted block information section
(<ph>X'14'</ph>) is the protection information TLV object. This subsection
is required.  It contains the encrypted 8-byte confounder and triple-length
(24-byte) MAC key, the ISO-16609 TDES CBC MAC value, and the MKVP
of the PKA master key (computed using MDC4). </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs14sss/l0wskc02_tbs14_ss001"/>.  </p>
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs14_ss001" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><ph>Protection information subsection (<ph>X'0001'</ph>) of trusted block information section
(<ph>X'14'</ph>)</ph></title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Protection information subsection of trusted block information section </p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag: <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'0001'</ph></dt>
<dd>Trusted block information TLV object</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (62).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">006</entry>
<entry valign="top">032</entry>
<entry valign="top">Encrypted MAC key. <p>Contains the encrypted 8-byte confounder and triple-length
(24-byte) MAC key in the following format:</p>
<dl>
<dlhead>
<dthd>Offset</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>00 - 07</dt>
<dd>Confounder</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>08 - 15</dt>
<dd>Left key</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>16 - 23</dt>
<dd>Middle key</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>24 - 31</dt>
<dd>Right key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">038</entry>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top">MAC. <p>Contains the ISO-16609 TDES CBC Message Authentication Code
value.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">046</entry>
<entry colname="col2">016</entry>
<entry colname="col3">MKVP. <p>Contains the PKA master-key verification pattern, computed using
MDC4, when the trusted block is in internal form, otherwise contains binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'14'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0002'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0002'</ph> of the trusted block information section
(<ph>X'14'</ph>) is the activation and expiration dates TLV object.
This subsection is optional. It contains flags indicating whether
or not the coprocessor is to validate dates, and contains the activation
and expiration dates that are considered valid for the trusted block. </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs14sss/l0wskc02_tbs14_ss002"/>.  </p>
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs14_ss002" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><ph>Activation and expiration dates subsection (<ph>X'0002'</ph>) of trusted block
information section (<ph>X'14'</ph>)</ph></title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Activation and expiration dates subsection of trusted block information
section </p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'0002'</ph></dt>
<dd>Activation and expiration dates TLV object</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (16).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">006</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Flags: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'0000'</ph></dt>
<dd>The coprocessor does not check dates.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'0001'</ph></dt>
<dd>The coprocessor checks dates. <p>Compare the activation date (offset 008) and the expiration
date (offset 012) to the coprocessor's internal real-time clock. Return an error if the coprocessor
date is before the activation date or after the expiration date.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">Activation date. <p>Contains the first date that the trusted block can be used
for generating or exporting keys. Format of the date is YYMDD, where: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>YY</dt>
<dd>Big-endian year (return an error if greater than 9999)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>MM</dt>
<dd>Month (return an error if any value other than <ph>X'01'</ph> - <ph>X'0C'</ph>)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>DD</dt>
<dd>Day of month (return an error if any value other than <ph>X'01'</ph> - <ph>X'1F'</ph>. Day must
be valid for given month and year, including leap years).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</p>
<p>Return an error if the activation date is after the expiration date or is not valid.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">012</entry>
<entry colname="col2">004</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Expiration date. <p>Contains the last date that the trusted block can be used.
Same format as activation date (offset 008). Return an error if date is not valid.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</refbody></reference>
