<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_inbkal">
<title>Interbank PIN Generation algorithm</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Interbank PIN Generation algorithm</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Interbank PIN Generation
algorithm</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>A description of the Interbank PIN calculation method.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>algorithm<indexterm>Interbank PIN generation</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>personal identification number (PIN)<indexterm>Interbank
PIN generation algorithm</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The Interbank PIN calculation method consists of the following
steps: 
<ol>
<li>Let X denote the <synph><var>transaction_security</var></synph> parameter element
converted to an array of 16 4-bit numeric values. This parameter consists
of (in the following sequence) the 11 rightmost digits of the customer
PAN (excluding the check digit), a constant of 6, a 1-digit key indicator,
and a 3-digit validation field.</li>
<li>Encrypt X with the double-length PINGEN (or PINVER) key to get
16 hexadecimal digits (64 bits).</li>
<li>Perform decimalization on the result of the previous step by scanning
the 16 hexadecimal digits from left to right, skipping any digit greater
than <ph>X'9'</ph> until 4 decimal digits (for example, digits that
have values from <ph>X'0'</ph> - <ph>X'9'</ph>) are found. 
<p>If all
digits are scanned but 4 decimal digits are not found, repeat the
scanning process, skipping all digits that are <ph>X'9'</ph> or less
and selecting the digits that are greater than <ph>X'9'</ph>. Subtract
10 (<ph>X'A'</ph>) from each digit selected in this scan.</p>
<p>If
the 4 digits that were found are all zeros, replace the 4 digits with
0100.</p></li>
<li>Concatenate and use the resulting digits for the Interbank PIN.
The 4-digit PIN consists of the decimal digits in the sequence in
which they are found.</li>
</ol></p>
</conbody></concept>