<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_rsame2">
<title>RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent internal format
for cryptographic coprocessor feature</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent internal format
for cryptographic coprocessor feature</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private key token, 1024-bit
Modulus-Exponent internal format for cryptographic coprocessor feature</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The format of the RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent
internal format for cryptographic coprocessor feature.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>RSA private internal key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA
1024-bit private internal</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA 1024-bit private internal</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA 1024-bit private internal key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>private internal key token<indexterm>RSA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>internal key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Modulus-Exponent format</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p><xref href="#l0wskc02_rsame2/l0wskc02_rpkai1"/> shows the format of the RSA private key token,
1024-bit Modulus-Exponent internal format for cryptographic coprocessor feature.</p>
<table id="l0wskc02_rpkai1" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>RSA private internal key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent format for cryptographic
coprocessor feature</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">RSA private internal key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent format for
cryptographic coprocessor feature</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="15*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><b>Offset (decimal)</b></entry>
<entry><b>Length (bytes)</b></entry>
<entry><b>Description</b></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'02'</ph>, section identifier, RSA private key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph>, version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the RSA private key section <ph>X'016C'</ph> (364 decimal).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the private key subsection cleartext, offset 28 to the section end. This
hash value is checked after an enciphered private key is deciphered for use.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>028</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key format and security: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'02'</ph></dt>
<dd>RSA private key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>029</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Format of external key from which this token was derived: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'21'</ph></dt>
<dd>External private key was specified in the clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'22'</ph></dt>
<dd>External private key was encrypted.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>030</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash of the key token structure contents that follow the public key section. If no
sections follow, this field is set to binary zeros.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>050</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key use flag bits. <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'11xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Only key unwrapping (KM-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'10xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Both signature generation and key unwrapping (KEY-MGMT)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'01xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'00xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Only signature generation (SIG-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>All other bits reserved, set to binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>051</entry>
<entry>009</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>060</entry>
<entry>048</entry>
<entry>Object Protection Key (OPK) encrypted under a PKA master key—can be under the Signature
Master Key (SMK) or Key Management Master Key (KMMK) depending on key use.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>108</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Secret key exponent <synph><var>d</var></synph>, encrypted under the OPK.
<synph><var>d</var></synph> = <synph><var>e</var></synph><sup>-1</sup>
mod((<synph><var>p</var></synph>-1)(<synph><var>q</var></synph>-1)) </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>236</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Modulus, <synph><var>n</var></synph>. <synph><var>n</var></synph> =
<synph><var>p</var></synph><synph><var>q</var></synph> where <synph><var>p</var></synph> and
<synph><var>q</var></synph> are prime and 1 &lt; <synph><var>n</var></synph> &lt; 2 <sup>1024</sup>.
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</refbody></reference>