<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc307">
<title>Special notes</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Special notes</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Special notes for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31ki"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Additional information about CSNBT31I.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtr31ki"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltr31ki"/>)<indexterm>special
notes</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody><section>
<ol>
<li>Several import situations might require keywords. Keywords are
ignored for <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> scenarios unless they directly conflict
with the included CV. For example, the verb returns an error if the
control vector indicates that a DKYGENKY key has a subtype of DKYL0
and the user specifies the DKYL1 keyword.</li>
<li>Be aware of the interaction of ACP <ph>X'0158'</ph> (TR31 Export
- Permit Any CCA Key if INCL-CV Is Specified) with the <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> keyword
for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkext31"/> verb. Without the <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> keyword specified,
most export translations are guarded by key-type specific ACPs. These
ACPs are used to guard the source CCA system against attacks involving
reimport of the exported key under ambiguous circumstances. When the
control vector is exported in an optional block along with the key,
it is securely bound to the encrypted key. This somewhat protects
the source system because the key on import is allowed to have only
the form of the included control vector. Expansion of capability is
blocked. If ACP <ph>X'0158'</ph> is not enabled in the active role,
the type-specific ACPs are still required. However, if ACP <ph>X'0158'</ph> is
enabled, the key-type specific ACPs are not checked when <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> is
specified. </li>
<li>Be aware of ACP <ph>X'017C'</ph> (TR31 Import - Permit V0/V1/V2:N
to PINGEN/PINVER) for import of PINGEN or PINVER keys to wrapping
mode A, usage V0, V1, V2, and mode N.</li>
</ol></section>
<section><p>The extra translation-specific ACPs are intended to enable control
of situations where the CCA imported key type is ambiguous based on
the TR-31 key attributes. This ambiguity is never the case when <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> has
been specified with the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkext31"/> verb, which ensures that the
imported TR-31 key block has a valid CV to precisely control the resultant
CCA key. Therefore, there are no translation-specific ACPs governing <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> import
translations.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>