<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_dkg2">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/> service
generates an AES key based on a function of a key-generating key, the process rule, and data that
you supply.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>To use this service, specify: </p>
<ul>
<li>the rule array keyword to select the diversification process</li>
<li>the operational AES key-generating key from which the diversified keys are generated:<ul>
<li>Key usage field 1 determines the type of key that is generated and restricts the use of this key
to the key-diversification process.</li>
<li>Key usage field 2 contains a flag to determine how key usage fields 3 through 6 control the key
usage fields of the generated key.<ul>
<li>When the flag is on, the key usage fields of the DKYGENKY must be equal to the key usage fields
of the generated key (KUF-MBE, meaning: <term>key usage fields must be equal</term>).</li>
<li>When the flag is off, the key usage fields of the DKYGENKY limit the values of the key usage
fields of the generated key (KUF-MBP, meaning: <term>key usage fields must be
permitted</term>).</li>
</ul><p>For the service to be valid, the generated key cannot have a usage that is not enabled in
the DKYGENKY key. The UDX-ONLY bit is always treated as <term>must be equal</term>.</p></li>
<li>Key usage fields 3 through 6 in the key generating key indicate the key usage attributes for the
key to be generated. The only exception to this rule is when the type of key to diversify is
D-ALL.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>the data and length of data used in the diversification process</li>
<li>the AES key token with a suitable key usage field for receiving the diversified key.</li>
</ul>
<note rev="sh20i1">This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> 
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
