<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_ch1availccaverbs" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Available <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword>)
verbs</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs</navtitle><?Pub Caret 3?>
<searchtitle>Available <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>) verbs for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> products provide a
variety of cryptographic processes and data-security techniques.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword> verb</indexterm>
<indexterm>data confidentiality</indexterm><indexterm>data integrity</indexterm>
<indexterm>digital signature</indexterm><indexterm>nonrepudiation</indexterm>
<indexterm>authentication</indexterm><indexterm>key management</indexterm>
<indexterm>Java interaction</indexterm>
<indexterm>Java Native Interface</indexterm>
<indexterm>JNI</indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword> management</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Your application program can call verbs (sometimes called services)
to perform the following functions:  <dl><dlentry>
<dt>Data confidentiality</dt>
<dd>Encrypt and decrypt information, typically using the AES or DES
algorithms in Cipher Block Chaining (CBC) mode to enable data confidentiality.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Data integrity</dt>
<dd>Hash data to obtain a digest, or process the data to obtain a
Message Authentication Code (MAC) or keyed hash MAC (HMAC), that is
useful in demonstrating data integrity.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Nonrepudiation</dt>
<dd>Generate and verify digital signatures using either the RSA algorithm
or the ECDSA algorithm, to demonstrate data integrity and form the
basis for nonrepudiation.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Authentication</dt>
<dd>Generate, encrypt, translate, and verify finance industry personal
identification numbers (PINs) and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/amex"></keyword>,
MasterCard, and Visa card security codes with a comprehensive set
of finance-industry-specific services.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Key management</dt>
<dd>Manage the various AES, DES, ECC, and RSA keys necessary to perform
the mentioned cryptographic operations.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/java"/> interaction</dt>
<dd>Interact with the Java Native Interface (JNI). The  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs have a specific version that can be
used for JNI work.<note rev="sh16">In this JNI, a new data type <b><i><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnl"/></i></b> is replacing the old type
<b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/></i></b> since <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> version 5.2. Both types inherit from an
abstract class <b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hni"/></i></b>.
Thus, type <b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/></i></b> is
still supported, so you can run existing applications with this deprecated data type. However, start
using type <b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnl"/></i></b> for new
applications instead, because <b><i><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/></i></b> may be removed in the future.
</note></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword> management</dt>
<dd>Control the initialization and operation of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword>.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003329?>
