<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_unload_dd">
<title>Unloading the cryptographic device driver</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Unloading the cryptographic device driver</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Unloading the cryptographic device
driver</searchtitle>
  </titlealts><shortdesc>You might need to unload the cryptographic device driver, for example, to change the
domain setting. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>unloading the device driver</indexterm>
<indexterm>device driver unloading</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Unloading the device driver is somehow complicated because the <apiname>catcher.exe</apiname>
daemon is always running, to be ready to receive <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/> requests. To unload the device driver, for
example, in preparation for a reload, you must stop the catcher.exe daemon. This can be done with
the service management script <codeph>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat</codeph> using the
<synph><kwd>stop</kwd></synph> argument, <ph rev="sh21i3">or on newer distributions providing
<cmdname>systemd</cmdname> with <cmdname>systemctl stop CSUTKEcat</cmdname>. Only when the
<apiname>catcher.exe</apiname> daemon is still shown by <cmdname>ps aux | grep catcher</cmdname>,
use the <cmdname>ps</cmdname> command to find the PID for the daemon. Then use the <cmdname>kill
&lt;PID></cmdname> command, or as a last method, use the  <cmdname>kill -9 &lt;PID></cmdname>
command to kill it.</ph></p>
<p>Unloading of the device driver is only successful, if you stop all applications that access the
main <cmdname>ap</cmdname> module and any of the running sub-modules before the unload. Unloading
fails, if you miss to stop an involved application. In this case, the device driver requires a
restart to be able to function as desired. </p>
<p>After reloading the device driver, you can restart the catcher.exe
daemon (restarting TKE access) using the <synph><kwd>/etc/init.d/CSUTKEcat
start</kwd></synph> command. See <xref href="wskc_c_inst_rpm_files.dita#inst_rpm_files"/> for more details.</p>
<note rev="sh18i2">If the cryptographic device driver is part of the kernel, you cannot unload it. In
this case, you can directly edit domain settings via <filepath>sysfs</filepath> (see <xref
href="wskc_c_l0wskc112.dita#l0wskc112"/>). </note>
</conbody></concept>
