<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="keylb07">
<title>Key-label content</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Key-label content</navtitle>
<searchtitle/>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Use a key label to identify a record in key storage managed by
a CCA implementation. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>key label</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The key label must be left-aligned in the 64-byte string variable
used as input to the verb. Some verbs use a key label while others
use a key identifier. Calls that use a key identifier accept either
a key token or a key label.</p>
<p>A key-label character string has the following properties: 
<ul>
<li>It contains 64 bytes of data.</li>
<li>The first character is within the range <ph>X'20'</ph> - <ph>X'FE'</ph>.
If the first character is within this range, the input is treated
as a key label, even if it is otherwise not valid. Inputs beginning
with a byte valued in the range <ph>X'00'</ph> - <ph>X'1F'</ph> are
considered to be some form of key token. A first byte valued to <ph>X'FF'</ph> is
not valid.</li>
<li>The first character of the key label cannot be numeric (0  - 
9).</li>
<li>The label is ended by a space character on the right (in ASCII
it is <ph>X'20'</ph>, and in EBCDIC it is <ph>X'40'</ph>). The remainder
of the 64-byte field is padded with space characters.</li>
<li>Construct a label with 1 - 7 name tokens, each separated by a
period (.). The key label must not end with a period.</li>
<li>A name token consists of 1 - 8 characters in the character set
A - Z, 0 - 9, and three additional characters relating to different
character symbols in the various national language character sets
as listed in <xref href="#keylb07/keylb07_tab1"/>.
<table id="keylb07_tab1" pgwide="0" frame="all">
<title>Valid symbols for the name token</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Valid
symbols for the name token</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="6*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>ASCII systems</entry>
<entry>EBCDIC systems</entry>
<entry>USA graphic (for reference)</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'23'</ph></entry>
<entry><ph>X'7B'</ph></entry>
<entry>#</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'24'</ph></entry>
<entry><ph>X'5B'</ph></entry>
<entry>$</entry></row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'40'</ph></entry>
<entry><ph>X'7C'</ph></entry>
<entry>@</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The alphabetic and numeric characters and the period should
be encoded in the normal character set for the computing platform
that is in use, either ASCII or EBCDIC. 
<p>
<note><ol>
<li>Some CCA implementations accept the characters a - z and fold
these to their uppercase equivalents, A - Z. For compatibility reasons,
only use the uppercase alphabetic characters.</li>
<li>Some implementations internally transform the EBCDIC encoding
of a key label to an ASCII string. Also, the label might be put in
tokenized form by dropping the periods and formatting each name token
into 8-byte groups, padded on the right with space characters.</li></ol>
</note></p></li>
</ul></p>
<p>Some verbs accept a key label containing a wild card represented
by an asterisk (*). (<ph>X'2A'</ph> in ASCII; <ph>X'5C'</ph> in EBCDIC).
When a verb permits the use of a wild card, the wild card can appear
as the first character, as the last character, or as the only character
in a name token. Any of the name tokens can contain a wild card.</p>
<p>Examples of valid key labels include the following: 
<codeblock>    A
    ABCD.2.3.4.5555
    ABCDEFGH
    BANKSYS.XXXXX.43*.PDQ</codeblock></p>
<p>Examples of key labels that are not valid are listed in <xref href="#keylb07/keylb07_tab2"/>.
<table id="keylb07_tab2">
<title>Key labels that
are not valid</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Key labels that are not valid</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="67*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="131*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Key label not valid</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Problem with key label</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><codeph>A/.B</codeph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">A slash is an unacceptable character</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><codeph>ABCDEFGH9</codeph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Name token is greater than 8 characters</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><codeph>1111111.2.3.4.55555</codeph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">First character cannot be numeric</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><codeph>A1111111.2.3.4.55555.6.7.8</codeph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Number of name tokens exceeds 7</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><codeph>BANKSYS.XXXXX.*43*.D</codeph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Number of wild cards exceeds 1</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><codeph>A.B.</codeph></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Last character cannot be a period</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> </p>
</conbody></concept>
