<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="ptr2">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/>)</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/> verb changes
(translates) PIN-block encryption and optionally formats a PIN into a different PIN-block format
(reformats). This verb can be used in an interchange-network application, or to change the PIN block
to conform to the format and encryption key used in a PIN-verification database. This verb can also
be used to perform derived unique key per transaction (DUKPT) PIN-block encryption (ANS X9.24) for
both input and output PIN blocks. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>authenticated PAN change</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>This verb is a superset of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>) verb and deprecates <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>. In addition to providing all the
function of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>, it supports the
AES encrypted ISO-4 PIN-block (as defined in ISO 9564-1) and <term>authenticated PAN change</term>
support. Note that <term>authenticated PAN change</term> support only applies to ISO-4 to ISO-4
PIN-block format translations.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">The derived unique-key-per-transaction (DUKPT) algorithm is available. Both
DES-DUKPT (ANSI x9.24-1 2007) and AES-DUKPT (ANSI x9.24-3 2017) are supported. This support is
available for the <parmname>input_PIN_encrypting_key_identifier</parmname> and the
<parmname>output_PIN_encrypting_key_identifier</parmname> parameters for both REFORMAT and TRANSLAT
process rules. The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> keyword determines which PIN key or PIN keys are
derived keys.</p>
<p>These PIN-block formats are supported: </p><ul>
<li><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> 3624</li>
<li>ISO-0 (same as ANS X9.8, VISA-1, and ECI-1)</li>
<li>ISO-1 (same as ECI-4)</li>
<li>ISO-2</li>
<li>ISO-3</li>
<li>ISO-4 (not supported by <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"
/>)</li>
</ul><p> The verb operates in one of two modes, either <i>translate</i> or <i>reformat</i>:</p><ul>
<li>In <i>translate</i> mode, the verb decrypts a PIN block using the input key or that is derived
from other information provided. The cleartext information is then encrypted using the output key or
that is derived from other information provided. The cleartext is not examined.</li>
<li>In <i>reformat</i> mode, the verb performs the translate-mode functions and, in addition,
processes the cleartext information. Following the rules specified in the rule array, the PIN is
recovered from the input cleartext PIN-block and formatted into an output PIN-block for
encryption.</li>
</ul><p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ansix98"/> defines PIN rules that
affect how PIN blocks can be reformatted. To have this verb enforce the PIN rules defined by
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ansix98"/>, enable the <cmdname
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/x0350"/> command (offset <ph>X'0350'</ph>) or the
more restrictive <cmdname conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/x0352"/> command (offset
<ph>X'0352'</ph>) in the active role. If both of these commands are enabled, the more restrictive
offset <ph>X'0352'</ph> overrides <ph>X'0350'</ph>. For more details on these commands see <xref
href="wskc_ptr2_required.dita"/>.</p><p><xref
href="wskc_ptr2_required.dita#ptr2_required/ptr2reqxlate"/> provides a matrix of allowed and not
allowed reformatting between PIN-block formats when <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ansix98"/> PIN rules are being enforced (that is,
offset <ph>X'0350'</ph>, <ph>X'0352'</ph>, or both are enabled in the active role), as well as any
exceptions.</p><p>The verb performs an <term>authenticated PAN change</term> when
(1)&NonBreakingSpace;<b>PAN-CHG</b> is specified in the rule array, (2)&NonBreakingSpace;the
<cmdname conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/x038B"/> command (offset X'038B') is
enabled in the active role, and (3)&NonBreakingSpace;the input and output PIN-block formats are both
ISO-4.</p><p>If all three conditions are true, the <parmname>authentication_data</parmname>
parameter must identify a length-value structure that includes a NIST SP 800-38B CMAC. This CMAC
along with the AES MAC key identified by the <parmname>authentication_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter are used to verify if the PAN change request is allowed. If the CMAC verification is
successful, the PAN change request is allowed. Otherwise, it is not allowed.</p><note>
<ol>
<li>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</li>
<li>When running with host warning mode enabled, commands that may be performed using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/> service because they are legacy
commands duplicated between <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>
and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/>, are reported to warning
mode logs using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/> verb
identifier.</li>
<li>With the <cmdname conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/x038B"/> command (offset
<ph>X'038B'</ph>) enabled in the active role, all PAN change requests must be authenticated. Support
for <term>authenticated PAN changes</term> is only available when the input and output PIN-block
formats are both ISO-4.</li>
<li>When both PIN blocks have a PAN, if only one is an ISO-4 PIN-block (for example, ISO-0 to ISO-4
or ISO-4 to ISO-3) and the 12 rightmost digits of the PANs are equal (which excludes the ISO-4 check
digit), the <cmdname conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/x038B"/> command (offset
<ph>X'038B'</ph>) does not prevent a reformat and the reformat is allowed, provided that the
reformat is otherwise authorized.</li>
<li>Beginning with Release 5.5, the key used to verify the CMAC must have key usage PTR2AUTH when
the <cmdname conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/x0395"/> command (offset
<ph>X'0395'</ph>) is enabled in the active role.</li>
</ol>
</note><p>When the verb needs to perform an authenticated PAN change, the authentication_data
variable must contain a length-value structure that includes the NIST SP 800-38B CMAC to be
verified, and the <i>authentication_key_identifier</i> parameter must identify the key to use to
verify the CMAC. The CMAC is generated or verified using the following message:</p><codeblock>
Message = Old PAN &DoubleVerticalBar; New PAN &DoubleVerticalBar; Optional additional authentication data
</codeblock>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn2"/> verb can be used to
generate the CMAC.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the PAN format rule is <keyword>PANAUTAS</keyword>, the PAN data must be ASCII
character data.</p>
<codeblock rev="sh21i1">
Authentication value = 
CMAC( (Old PAN) || (New PAN) || (Optional additional authentication data) )
</codeblock>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the PAN format rule is <keyword>PANAUTI4</keyword>, the PAN data is formatted
according to ISO 9564-1 PAN format. </p>
<codeblock rev="sh21i1">
Authentication value = 
CMAC( (Old PAN) ISO 9564 FMT || (New PAN) ISO 9564 FMT 
|| (Optional additional authentication data) )
</codeblock>
<p><xref href="#ptr2/ptr2_iso_95641" format="dita"/> shows the format of an ISO 9564-1 plaintext PAN
field.</p>
<table id="ptr2_iso_95641" frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1"><title>ISO 9564-1 plaintext PAN field format</title>
<desc><p outputclass="summary">ISO 9564-1 plaintext PAN field format</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="17">
<colspec align="left" colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="2.5*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c6" colnum="6" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c7" colnum="7" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c8" colnum="8" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c9" colnum="9" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c10" colnum="10" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c11" colnum="11" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c12" colnum="12" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c13" colnum="13" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c14" colnum="14" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c15" colnum="15" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c16" colnum="16" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec align="center" colname="c17" colnum="17" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c17" align="center"><b>First 8 bytes of 16-byte ISO 9564-1 plaintext PAN field</b></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry><b>ISO 9564-1 PAN field</b></entry>
<entry namest="c2" nameend="c3"><b>Bits 01 – 08</b></entry>
<entry namest="c4" nameend="c5"><b>Bits 09 – 16</b></entry>
<entry namest="c6" nameend="c7"><b>Bits 17 – 24</b></entry>
<entry namest="c8" nameend="c9"><b>Bits 25 – 32</b></entry>
<entry namest="c10" nameend="c11"><b>Bits 33 – 40</b></entry>
<entry namest="c12" nameend="c13"><b>Bits 41 – 48</b></entry>
<entry namest="c14" nameend="c15"><b>Bits 49 – 56</b></entry>
<entry namest="c16" nameend="c17"><b>Bits 57 – 64</b></entry>
</row>
<row valign="middle">
<entry valign="top">Part 1 of 2</entry>
<entry>M</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c17" align="center"><b>Second 8 bytes of 16-byte ISO 9564-1 plaintext
PAN field</b></entry>
</row>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry><b>ISO 9564-1 PAN field</b></entry>
<entry namest="c2" nameend="c3"><b>Bits 65 – 72</b></entry>
<entry namest="c4" nameend="c5"><b>Bits 73 – 80</b></entry>
<entry namest="c6" nameend="c7"><b>Bits 81 – 88</b></entry>
<entry namest="c8" nameend="c9"><b>Bits 89 – 96</b></entry>
<entry namest="c10" nameend="c11"><b>Bits 97 – 104</b></entry>
<entry namest="c12" nameend="c13"><b>Bits 105 – 112</b></entry>
<entry namest="c14" nameend="c15"><b>Bits 113 – 120</b></entry>
<entry namest="c16" nameend="c17"><b>Bits 121 – 128</b></entry>
</row>
<row valign="middle">
<entry valign="top">Part 2 of 2</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
<entry>A/0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>0</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c17" align="left">where: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>M</dt>
<dd>PAN length, a 4-bit field with permissible values X'0' – X'7' that indicates a PAN length of 12
plus the value of the field (ranging from 12 – 19). If the PAN is less than 12 digits, the digits
are right justified and padded to the left with binary zeros, and M is set to X'0'.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>A</dt>
<dd>PAN digit, a 4-bit field with permissible values of X'0' – X'9'.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>0</dt>
<dd>Pad digit, a 4-bit field with the only permissible value of X'0'.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>A/0</dt>
<dd>PAN/Pad digit, where the designation of these fields is determined by the PAN length field,
M.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table><p><xref href="#ptr2/sptpbl" format="dita"/> shows the supported PIN-block format
translations along with the algorithm, key type, and required key usage attributes of each key for
this verb based on the combination of input and output PIN-block formats and whether the
authenticated PAN-change option is allowed.</p><note>PIN-block format ISO-1 is not allowed when
<cmdname>Disallow ISO-1 PIN Format Usage</cmdname> command (offset X'032F') is enabled in the active
role.</note><p rev="sh21i1"><b>Note on DUKPT</b> on <xref href="#ptr2/sptpbl" format="dita"/>: Any
AES input or output key can only specify AES DUKPT methods, because AES DUKPT can generate both DES
and AES keys. In contrast, DES DUKPT can only generate DES keys.</p><table colsep="1" frame="all"
id="sptpbl" rowsep="1"><title>Supported PIN-block format translations for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/></title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Supported PIN-block format translations along with the algorithm, key type,
and required key usage attributes of each key for this verb based on the combination of input and
output PIN-block formats and whether the authenticated PAN-change option is allowed</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="6">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="7*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="7*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="12*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="14*"/>
<colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="14*"/>
<colspec colname="c6" colnum="6" colwidth="16*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2">PIN-block format</entry>
<entry morerows="1">Authenticated PAN-change option allowed</entry>
<entry morerows="1">Input key</entry>
<entry morerows="1">Output key</entry>
<entry morerows="1">Authentication key</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Input</entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>ISO-0</b></entry>
<entry><b>ISO-4</b></entry>
<entry>No</entry>
<entry>DES IPINENC with REFORMAT</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with ENCRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1"><b>ISO-1</b></entry>
<entry morerows="1"><b>ISO-4</b></entry>
<entry morerows="1">No</entry>
<entry morerows="1">DES IPINENC with REFORMAT</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with ENCRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4, without RFMT1TO4</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES PINPROT with ENCRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4, with RFMT1TO4</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>ISO-4</b></entry>
<entry><b>ISO-0</b></entry>
<entry>No</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with DECRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4</entry>
<entry>DES OPINENC with REFORMAT </entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1"><b>ISO-4</b></entry>
<entry morerows="1"><b>ISO-1</b></entry>
<entry morerows="1">No</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with DECRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4, without RFMT4TO1</entry>
<entry morerows="1">DES OPINENC with REFORMAT </entry>
<entry morerows="1">N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES PINPROT with DECRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4, with RFMT4TO1 (Release 5.5 or later)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1"><b>ISO-4</b></entry>
<entry morerows="1"><b>ISO-4</b></entry>
<entry>No</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with DECRYPT, PINXLATE, and ISO-4</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with ENCRYPT, PINXLATE, and ISO-4</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Yes</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with DECRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4</entry>
<entry>AES PINPROT with ENCRYPT, REFORMAT, and ISO-4</entry>
<entry>AES MAC with VERIFY and CMAC. In addition, if offset <ph>X'0395'</ph> (Release 5.5 or later)
is enabled in the active role, the key must include PTR2AUTH usage.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<indexterm>CKSN</indexterm><indexterm>current key serial number</indexterm>
<p>Each supported PIN-block format translation requires its own access-control command to be enabled
in the active role. These commands are shown in <xref
href="wskc_ptr2_required.dita#ptr2_required/pftracc"/>. </p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
