<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_mdc_generate" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmdg"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"></keyword>)</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmdg"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"></keyword>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use this verb to create a 128-bit hash value (Modification
Detection Code) on a data string whose integrity you intend to confirm. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmdg"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmdg"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmdg"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"></keyword>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Modification Detection Code (MDC)</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>After using this verb to generate an MDC, you can compare the MDC to a known value or communicate
the value to another entity so that they can compare the MDC hash value to one that they calculate.
This verb enables you to perform the following tasks: <ul>
<li>Specify the two-encipherment or four-encipherment version of the algorithm.</li>
<li>Segment your text into a series of verb calls.</li>
<li>Use the default or a keyed-hash algorithm.</li>
</ul></p></section><?Pub Caret -2?>
<section><p>The user must enable the <cmdname>MDC Generate</cmdname>  command (offset X'008A') with a Trusted
Key Entry (TKE) workstation before using this verb.</p></section>
<section><p>For a description of the MDC calculations, see <xref
href="wskc_c_algomdc.dita#l0wskc02_algomdc"></xref>.</p></section>
<section><p><synph><kwd>Specifying two or four encipherments:</kwd></synph> Four
encipherments per algorithm round improve security; two encipherments
per algorithm round improve performance. To specify the number of
encipherments, use the <synph><kwd>MDC-2</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>MDC-4</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>PADMDC-2</kwd></synph>,
or <synph><kwd>PADMDC-4</kwd></synph> keyword with the <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameter.
Two encipherments create results that differ from four encipherments;
ensure that the same number of encipherments are used to verify the
MDC.</p></section>
<section><p><synph><kwd>Segmenting text:</kwd></synph> This verb lets
you segment text into a series of verb calls. If you can present all
of the data to be hashed in a single invocation of the verb (32 MB)
of data, use the <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keyword <synph><kwd>ONLY</kwd></synph>.
Alternatively, you can segment your text and present the segments
with a series of verb calls. Use the <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords
and <synph><kwd>LAST</kwd></synph> for the first and last segments.
If more than two segments are used, specify the <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keyword <synph><kwd>MIDDLE</kwd></synph> for
the additional segments.</p></section>
<section><p>Between verb calls, unprocessed text data and intermediate
information from the partial MDC calculation is stored in the <synph><var>chaining_vector</var></synph> variable
and the MDC key in the <synph><var>MDC</var></synph> variable. During
segmented processing, the application program must not change the
data in either of these variables.</p></section>
<section><p><synph><kwd>Keyed hash:</kwd></synph> This verb can be
used with a default key, or as a keyed-hash algorithm. A default key
is used whenever the <synph><kwd>ONLY</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>FIRST</kwd></synph> segmenting
and key control keywords are used. To use the verb as a keyed-hash
algorithm, do the following: <ol>
<li>On the first call to the verb, place the non-null key into the <synph><var>MDC</var></synph> variable.</li>
<li>Ensure that the <synph><var>chaining_vector</var></synph> variable
is set to null (18 bytes of <ph>X'00'</ph>).</li>
<li>Decide if the text will be processed in a single segment or multiple
segments. <ul>
<li>For a single segment of text, use the <synph><kwd>LAST</kwd></synph> keyword.</li>
<li>For multiple segments of text, begin with the <synph><kwd>MIDDLE</kwd></synph> keyword
and continue using the <synph><kwd>MIDDLE</kwd></synph> keyword up
to the final segment of text. For the final segment, use the <synph><kwd>LAST</kwd></synph> keyword.</li>
</ul></li>
</ol></p></section>
<section><p>As with the default key, you must not alter the value
of the <synph><var>MDC</var></synph> or <synph><var>chaining_vector</var></synph> variables
between calls.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000005830?>
