<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_cfqparameters">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The parameter definitions for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>function control vector<indexterm>FCV</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>FCV<indexterm>function control vector</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ADAPTER1</indexterm>
<indexterm>GET-UDX</indexterm>
<indexterm>NUM-DECT</indexterm>
<indexterm>QPENDING</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATAPKA</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATCCAE</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATCRD2</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATDIAG</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATEID</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATEXPT</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSA</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSC</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSE</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSX</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATKPR</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATKPRL</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATMOFN</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATVKPL</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATVKPR</indexterm>
<indexterm>TIMEDATE</indexterm>
<indexterm>TKESTATE</indexterm>
<indexterm>WRAPMTHD</indexterm>
<indexterm>CSUACFQ<indexterm>STATOAHL</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>pending change stored in adapter</indexterm>
<indexterm>adapter<indexterm>pending change</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>pending change user ID</indexterm>
<indexterm>user ID<indexterm>pending change</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATAES</indexterm>
<indexterm>NMK status, AES </indexterm>
<indexterm>status<indexterm>AES  NMK</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CMK status, AES </indexterm>
<indexterm>status<indexterm>AES  CMK</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>OMK status, AES </indexterm>
<indexterm>status<indexterm>AES  OMK</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>NMK status, ECC</indexterm>
<indexterm>status<indexterm>ECC NMK</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CMK status, ECC</indexterm>
<indexterm>status<indexterm>ECC CMK</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>OMK status, ECC</indexterm>
<indexterm>status<indexterm>ECC OMK</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATCARD</indexterm>
<indexterm>number of active coprocessors</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>number of</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES hardware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA hardware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>POST firmware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor part number</indexterm>
<indexterm>part number<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor EC level</indexterm>
<indexterm>EC level<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>miniboot firmware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>micropocessor chip operating speed</indexterm>
<indexterm>operating speed<indexterm>micropocessor chip</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor adapter ID</indexterm>
<indexterm>adapter ID<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>size of flash EPROM memory</indexterm>
<indexterm>flash EPROM memory<indexterm>size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>size of dynamic RAM (DRAM) memory</indexterm>
<indexterm>dynamic RAM (DRAM) memory<indexterm>size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>size of battery-backed RAM</indexterm>
<indexterm>battery-backed RAM<indexterm>size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor serial number</indexterm>
<indexterm>serial number<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATCCA</indexterm>
<indexterm>NMK status</indexterm>
<indexterm>CMK status</indexterm>
<indexterm>OMK status</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> API version</indexterm>
<indexterm>CEX3C</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> API build
date</indexterm>
<indexterm>role identifier</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> API version</indexterm>
<indexterm>asymmetric NMK status</indexterm>
<indexterm>asymmetric CMK status</indexterm>
<indexterm>asymmetric OMK status</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATCRD2</indexterm>
<indexterm>number of active coprocessors</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>number of</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES hardware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA hardware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>POST firmware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>operating system firmware name</indexterm>
<indexterm>operating system firmware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor part number</indexterm>
<indexterm>part number<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor EC level</indexterm>
<indexterm>EC level<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>miniboot firmware version</indexterm>
<indexterm>micropocessor chip operating speed</indexterm>
<indexterm>operating speed<indexterm>micropocessor chip</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor adapter ID</indexterm>
<indexterm>adapter ID<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>size of flash EPROM memory</indexterm>
<indexterm>flash EPROM memory<indexterm>size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>size of dynamic RAM (DRAM) memory</indexterm>
<indexterm>dynamic RAM (DRAM) memory<indexterm>size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>size of battery-backed RAM</indexterm>
<indexterm>battery-backed RAM<indexterm>size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor serial number</indexterm>
<indexterm>serial number<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor POST2 version</indexterm>
<indexterm>POST2 version<indexterm>coprocessor</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>battery indicator</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>battery indicator</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>intrusion latch</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>intrusion latch</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> error log</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
error log</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>tampering</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>tampering</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>power-supply voltage</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>power-supply voltage</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>temperature</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>temperature</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>radiation</indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>radiation</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array element<indexterm>last five commands</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>coprocessor<indexterm>last five commands</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array element<indexterm>security API
return code</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>security API return code<indexterm>rule_array
element</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATEID</indexterm>
<indexterm>Environment Identifier (EID)</indexterm>
<indexterm>base <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
services</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
services<indexterm>base</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES encryption<indexterm>56-bit</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>TDES encryption</indexterm>
<indexterm>Triple-DES encryption</indexterm>
<indexterm>secure electronic transaction (SET) services</indexterm>
<indexterm>symmetric key<indexterm>maximum modulus size</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSA<indexterm>verb_data field</indexterm><indexterm>adapter serial number</indexterm><indexterm>serial
number<indexterm>adapter</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSB<indexterm>verb_data field</indexterm><indexterm>adapter serial number</indexterm><indexterm>serial
number<indexterm>adapter</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>APKA NMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>APKA CMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>APKA OMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSE<indexterm>verb_data field</indexterm><indexterm>adapter serial number</indexterm><indexterm>serial
number<indexterm>adapter</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>adapter serial number</indexterm>
<indexterm>serial number<indexterm>adapter</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES NMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>DES CMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>DES OMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA NMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA CMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA OMK</indexterm>
<indexterm>STATICSX</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb_data field</indexterm>
<indexterm>adapter serial number</indexterm>
<indexterm>serial number<indexterm>adapter</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>STATMOFN</indexterm>
<indexterm>TIMEDATE</indexterm>
<indexterm>date</indexterm>
<indexterm>UTC time of day</indexterm>
<indexterm>time of day</indexterm>
<indexterm>day of the week</indexterm>
<indexterm>TKESTATE</indexterm>
<indexterm>TKE access</indexterm>
<indexterm>CEX3C</indexterm>
<indexterm>WRAPMTHD</indexterm>
<indexterm>tokens<indexterm>wrapping method</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>verb_data parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. On input, this value must be 1 or 2. <p>On output, the
verb sets the variable to the number of <parmname>rule_array</parmname> elements it returns to the
application program.</p><note type="other" othertype="Tip"> With this verb, the number of returned
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> elements can exceed the <parmname>rule_array_count</parmname> you
specified on input. Be sure you allocate adequate memory to receive all the information elements
according to the information class you select on input with the information-to-return keyword in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname>. </note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter is a pointer to a string variable containing
an array of keywords. The keywords are eight bytes in length and must be left-aligned and padded on
the right with space characters. <p>On input, set the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> to specify the
type of information to retrieve. There are two input <i>rule_array</i> elements, as described in
<xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfq_tab1"/>. This table also indicates to which
parameter, <parmname>rule_array</parmname> or <parmname>verb_data</parmname>, output data is
returned for each keyword.</p><table id="l0wskc02_cfq_tab1" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">The first and third data row span all columns and serve as headers for
table sections.</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="12*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="48*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="12*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="17*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Output in <i>rule_array</i></entry>
<entry>Output in <i>verb_data</i></entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col4"><i>Adapter to use</i> (Optional) </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>ADAPTER1</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword is ignored. It is accepted for backward compatibility.</entry>
<entry>n/a</entry>
<entry>n/a</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col4"><i>Information to return</i> (One required)</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i2">
<entry><b>DOM-CONT</b></entry>
<entry>Obtain an array of enabled control domains.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_domcont.dita"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i2">
<entry><b>DOM-NUMS</b></entry>
<entry>Returns the total number of domains allocated for the system in the <parmname>verb_data</parmname> variable.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_domnums.dita"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i2">
<entry><b>DOM-USAG</b></entry>
<entry>Obtain an array of enabled usage domains.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_domusag.dita"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>GETCOMPD</b></entry>
<entry>Get compliance data. Returns official card and domain compliance information. 
See the SIGNSTAT keyword later in this table for a method to have the entire bundle hashed and signed by adapter 
firmware outbound authentication firmware keys.
</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_getcompd.dita#cfq_getcompd"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>GET-UDX</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains UDX identifiers. <p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390_gudx.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390_gudx"/>. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>MOREMKS</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword returns additional master key information. It is in a second rule
array class and used to signify that additional data is to be returned with one or more existing
keywords. This keyword is only allowed when one of STATICSFB, STATCCA, or STATCCAE is also present.
Any other use results in an error return code of ( 8 / 0x22 [ 34 ] ). <p>When present, the reply
rule array elements for the SYM and ASYM master keys have additional bytes populated. The master key
status is still present in the same format in offset 0 of the element. </p><p>When STATICSFB is
present, an ASCII '1' is in offset 7 of the reply rule array element if ACP '0x0330' was set when
the master key parts were loaded. This forces the user to enter 24-bytes of key material. This is
only present for the SYM MK.</p><p>
<lines>
Example output for <cmdname>STATICSFB MOREMKS</cmdname>
(truncated to show only the SYM reply):
</lines>
</p><codeblock>
Rule array kw 0: Card Serial Number
Rule array kw 1: “3 1“ SYM MK new mk reg is full and
                      24-bytes entered.
Rule array kw 2: “2 “ SYM MK valid (contains a key)
                      current mk.
Rule array kw 3: “2 “ SYM MK valid old mk.</codeblock></entry>
<entry/>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NUM-DECT</b></entry>
<entry>Returns the number of bytes of data required for the <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph>
variable when the <synph><kwd>STATDECT</kwd></synph> rule-array keyword is specified. <note>A TKE is
used to securely load PIN decimalization tables.</note></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_num-dect.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_num-dect"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>QPENDING</b></entry>
<entry>TKE uses this <i>rule_array</i> keyword to request information about pending changes
previously submitted by this TKE or another TKE to this adapter. Only TKE can submit changes to be
stored in the Pending Change Buffer queried with this command. <p>The keyword is available for
normal users of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/>, for
informational or debugging reasons (no secrets are exposed).</p>
<p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>SIGNSTAT</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword causes the returned data to have a signature post-pended to the reply data which
covers the reply data. <p>It works in combination with the GETCOMPD and STATOAHL keywords.</p>
<p>It always returns data prefixed with a <parmname>signed_data_t</parmname> structure that defines
where the data is (following the signed_data_t) and where an optional signature is, (after the data
BLOB).</p>
<ul>
<li>If SIGNSTAT is not present, the <parmname>signed_data_t</parmname> beginning structure is still
returned, however the signature fields show offset, length, and sig-type of 0x00.</li>
<li>If SIGNSTAT is present, adapter firmware signs the data, puts a signature after the data, and
fixes the signature fields to allow for the signature fields and payload.</li>
</ul>
</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See the extension of the GETCOMPD and STATOAHL ouput in <xref
href="wskc_r_cfq_getcompd.dita#cfq_getcompd"/> and <xref
href="wskc_r_cfq_statoahl.dita#cfq_statoahl"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>SIZEWPIN</b></entry>
<entry>Get the number of bytes of storage required for the output of a STATWPIN request.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_sizewpin.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_sizewpin/sizewpin_table"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATAES</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains status information on AES master-key registers and AES key-length enablement.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATAPKA</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains status information on APKA master-key registers and APKA key-length enablement. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATCARD</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains coprocessor-related basic status information. This keyword is provided for backwards
compatibility. The <b>STATCRD2</b> should be used instead of <b>STATCARD</b>.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATCCA</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>-related status
information. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATCCAE</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>-related extended
status information. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATCRD2</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains extended basic status information about the coprocessor.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATDECT</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the information on all of the authorized PIN decimalization tables that are currently
stored on the coprocessor. Output is returned in the <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph> variable.
<note>A <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/> is used to securely load
PIN decimalization tables.</note></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statdect.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_statdect"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATDIAG</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains diagnostic information. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATEID</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the Environment Identifier (EID). </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATEXPT</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains function control vector-related status information. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATICSA</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the indicated master key hash and verification patterns to be returned for the master
keys loaded in the current domain. <p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_staticsa.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_staticsa"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATICSB</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the indicated master key hash and verification patterns to be returned for the master
keys loaded in the current domain. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_staticsb.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_staticsb"/>.</entry>
</row>

<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>STATICSC</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the indicated master key hash and verification patterns to be returned for the master
keys loaded in the current domain.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_staticsc.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_staticsc"/>.</entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><b>STATICSE</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the indicated master key hash and verification patterns to be returned for the master
keys loaded in the current domain. <p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_staticse.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_staticse"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATICSF</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword returns the adapter serial number and status information about the SYM (DES) and
ASYM (RSA) master-key registers, including whether a valid key is present in each of the old,
current, and new registers. <p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATICSX</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the indicated master key hash and verification patterns to be returned for the master
keys loaded in the current domain. <p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_staticsx.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_staticsx"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATKPR</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains non-secret information about an operational key part. <p>This keyword applies only
when using <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statkpr.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_statkpr"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATKPRL</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the names of the operational key parts. <p>This keyword applies only when using
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statkprl.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_statkprl"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATMOFN</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains master-key shares distribution information.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh18i1">
<entry><b>STATOAHL</b></entry>
<entry>Returns the adapter health for firmware, with full bootloader fields. This data structure
matches the signed <parmname>health_t</parmname> structure, which is returned by the secure
bootloader of the HSM when a <cmdname>QueryHealth</cmdname> command is issued. (Such a command is
isssued by low level <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm_z_systems"/>
firmware which then caches the information for the management console). Thus, this STATOAHL keyword
returns the same <parmname>health_t</parmname> structure through <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>, signed by an OA key.<p>Input:</p><p>The
<parmname>verb_data</parmname> parameter holds the 32-byte nonce desired by the user to be signed in
the returned <parmname>health_t</parmname> structure.</p><p>Output:</p><p>The
<parmname>verb_data</parmname> parameter holds the <parmname>health_t</parmname> structure.</p><p>
<note type="tip">Adding the SIGNSTAT keyword causes the returned data to be signed. The signature
returned from this call can be verified using the public key returned by the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> call to CSUADPK:GET-CERT. Then pass the
public key, signature, and hash of the data to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"/> verb.</note>
</p></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statoahl.dita#cfq_statoahl"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATVKPL</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the names of all the operational key parts for variable length key token preparation.
<p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statvkpl.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_statvkpl"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>STATVKPR</b></entry>
<entry>
<p>Obtains non-secret information about an operational key part. This is different from STATKPR in
that a register for creating a key in a variable length key token is described.</p>
<p>This keyword applies only when using <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p>
</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statvkpr.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_statvkpr"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><b>STATWPIN</b></entry>
<entry>Returns the state information on all of the weak PIN entries that are currently stored on the
coprocessor.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statwpin.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_statwpin/statwpin_table"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>TIMEDATE</b></entry>
<entry>Reads the current date, time, and day of the week from the secure clock within the
coprocessor.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>TKESTATE</b></entry>
<entry>Indicates whether TKE access is enabled or not. <p>This keyword applies only when using
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>.</p></entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>WRAPMTHD</b></entry>
<entry>Obtains the default key wrapping method. </entry>
<entry>See <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/>.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col4"><i>Verification Pattern Format selection for STATKPR, STATVKPR.</i>
The STATKPR and STATVKPR keywords request information about operational key parts that have been stored in 
the domain. Part of this information is a verification pattern for the key part, returned in the 
<parmname>ver_pattern</parmname> field of the STATKPR or STATVKPR output data.
</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>ENC-ZERO</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword modifies the output returned in the <parmname>ver_pattern</parmname> field of
the STATKPR or STATVKPR output data format structures when the subject key is a DES or TDES key. The
length of returned data in the <parmname>ver_pattern</parmname> field from the ENC-ZERO calculation
is 3 bytes when this keyword is used. The default length of returned data is 4 bytes.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statkpr.dita"/> or <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statvkpr.dita"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col4"><i>Hash Value Format selection for STATKPR, STATVKPR.</i>
The STATKPR and STATVKPR keywords request information about operational key parts that have been stored 
in the domain. Part of this information is a hash value for the key part, returned in the 
<parmname>key_part_hash</parmname> field of the STATKPR or STATVKPR output data.
</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>CMACZERO</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword modifies the output returned in the <parmname>key_part_hash</parmname> field of the STATKPR 
or STATVKPR output data format structures. The returned data in the <parmname>key_part_hash</parmname> field 
is changed to be 5 bytes of a truncated CMAC over the subject key when this keyword is used.</entry>
<entry>None.</entry>
<entry>See <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statkpr.dita"/> or <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_statvkpr.dita"
/>.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Different sets of <parmname>rule_array</parmname> elements are returned, depending on the input
keyword. <xref href="#l0wskc02_cfqparameters/l0wskc02_cfqoa"/> describes these
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> elements for keywords that result in output data in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter.</p><p>For <parmname>rule_array</parmname> elements that
contain numbers, those numbers are represented by numeric characters which are left-aligned and
padded on the right with space characters. For example, a <parmname>rule_array</parmname> element
that contains the number 2 contains the character string <b><q>2       </q></b> (the number 2
followed by seven space characters).</p><p>For some keywords, there is output data in the
<parmname>verb_data</parmname> variable. This output data is described in <xref
href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390"/>.</p>
<table id="l0wskc02_cfqoa" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> information returned in
the <i>rule_array</i></title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">This table contains data rows that span all columns and separate table
sections for individual keywords.</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="12*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Element number</entry>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option QPENDING</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Change type (ASCII number)</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number that indicates the type of pending change stored in the
adapter (if there is one) <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>none</dt>
<dd>No pending change</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Role load</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Profile load</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Role delete</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  4</dt>
<dd>Profile delete</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  5</dt>
<dd>Domain zeroize</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  6</dt>
<dd>Enable</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>user ID (string)</entry>
<entry>A string of eight ASCII characters for the user ID of the user who initiated
the pending change.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATAES</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>AES NMK status</entry>
<entry>State of the AES new master key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry><dt>1</dt>
<dd>Register is clear</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>2</dt>
<dd>Register contains a partially complete key</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>3</dt>
<dd>Register contains a complete key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>AES CMK status</entry>
<entry>State of the AES current master key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>1</dt>
<dd>Register is clear</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>2</dt>
<dd>Register contains a key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>AES OMK status</entry>
<entry>State of the AES old master key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Register is clear</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Register contains a key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>AES key length enablement</entry>
<entry>The maximum AES key length that is enabled by the function control vector. The
value is 0 (if no AES key length is enabled in the function control vector (FCV)), 128, 192, or
256.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATAPKA</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>ECC NMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the ECC new master key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Register is clear</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Register contains a partially complete key</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Register contains a complete key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>ECC CMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the ECC current master key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Register is clear</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Register contains a key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>ECC OMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the ECC old master key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Register is clear</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Register contains a key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>ECC key length enablement</entry>
<entry>The maximum ECC curve size that is enabled by the function control vector. The
value is 0 (if no ECC keys are enabled in the function control vector (FCV)) and 521 for the maximum
size.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATCARD</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Number of installed adapters</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the number of active coprocessors installed in the
machine. This includes only coprocessors that have <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> software loaded (including those with
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> UDX software). Non-<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors are not included in this
number.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES hardware level</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing an integer value identifying the version
of DES hardware on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>RSA hardware level</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing an integer value identifying the version
of RSA hardware on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>POST version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's Power-On Self
Test (POST) firmware. <p>The first four characters define the POST0 version and the last four
characters define the POST1 version.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor operating system name</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the operating system firmware on the
coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor operating system version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's operating
system firmware.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor part number</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the 8 character part number identifying the
version of the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>8</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor EC level</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the 8 character engineering change (EC) level
for this version of the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>9</entry>
<entry>Miniboot version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's miniboot
firmware. This firmware controls the loading of programs into the coprocessor. <p>The first four
characters define the MiniBoot0 version and the last four characters define the MiniBoot1
version.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>10</entry>
<entry>CPU speed</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the operating speed of the
microprocessor chip, in megahertz.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>11</entry>
<entry>Adapter ID (see also element number 15)</entry>
<entry>A unique identifier manufactured into the coprocessor. The coprocessor adapter
ID is an 8-byte <b>binary</b> value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>Flash memory size</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the size of the flash EPROM memory on
the coprocessor, in 64 KB increments.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>13</entry>
<entry>DRAM memory size</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the size of the dynamic RAM (DRAM)
memory on the coprocessor, in kilobytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>14</entry>
<entry>Battery-backed memory size</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the size of the battery-backed RAM on
the coprocessor, in kilobytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>15</entry>
<entry>Serial number</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the unique serial number of the coprocessor. The
serial number is factory installed.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATCCA</i>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>NMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the new master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a partially complete key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>CMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the current master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>OMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the old master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application version</entry>
<entry>A character string that identifies the version of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application program running in the
coprocessor. <p>If the first character of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application version field is a number, such
as <codeph>4</codeph> or greater, then this card is a CEX3C or higher. For example, a
<codeph>4</codeph> in the first character indicates a CEX3C or CEX4C. A <codeph>5</codeph> in the
first character indicates a CEX5C. <ph rev="sh18i2">A <codeph>6</codeph> in the first character
indicates a CEX6C.</ph></p><p>The results of this query come directly from the card itself. If the
host device driver is not up to date, it could incorrectly identify a wrong <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/>. Therefore, looking at this field
resolves all questions.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5 </entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application build
date</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the build date for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application program running in the
coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6 </entry>
<entry>User role</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the role identifier which defines the host application user's
current authority.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATCCAE</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Symmetric NMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the symmetric new master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a partially complete key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Symmetric CMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the symmetric current master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>Symmetric OMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the symmetric old master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application version</entry>
<entry>A character string that identifies the version of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application program that is running in the
coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application build
date</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the build date for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application program that is running in the
coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>User role</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the role identifier which defines the host application user's
current authority.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>Asymmetric NMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the asymmetric new master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a partially complete key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>8</entry>
<entry>Asymmetric CMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the asymmetric current master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>9</entry>
<entry>Asymmetric OMK status</entry>
<entry>The state of the asymmetric old master-key register: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The register is clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The register contains a key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATCRD2</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Number of installed adapters</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the number of active coprocessors installed in the
machine. This includes only coprocessors that have <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> software loaded (including those with
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> UDX software). Non-<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> coprocessors are not included in this
number.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES hardware level</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing an integer value identifying the version of DES
hardware on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>RSA hardware level</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing an integer value identifying the version of RSA
hardware on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>POST version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's Power-On Self Test (POST)
firmware. <p>The first four characters define the POST0 version and the last four characters define
the POST1 version.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor operating system name</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the operating system firmware on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor operating system version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's operating system
firmware.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor part number</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the 8 character part number identifying the version of the
coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>8</entry>
<entry>Coprocessor EC level</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the 8 character engineering change (EC) level for this version
of the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>9</entry>
<entry>Miniboot version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's miniboot firmware. This
firmware controls the loading of programs into the coprocessor. <p>The first four characters define
the MiniBoot0 version and the last four characters define the MiniBoot1 version.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>10</entry>
<entry>CPU speed</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the operating speed of the microprocessor chip, in
megahertz.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>11</entry>
<entry>Adapter ID (see also element number 15)</entry>
<entry>A unique identifier manufactured into the coprocessor. The coprocessor adapter ID is an
8-byte <b>binary</b> value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>Flash memory size</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the size of the flash EPROM memory on the coprocessor,
in 64 KB increments.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>13</entry>
<entry>DRAM memory size</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the size of the dynamic RAM (DRAM) memory on the
coprocessor, in kilobytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>14</entry>
<entry>Battery-backed memory size</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the size of the battery-backed RAM on the coprocessor,
in kilobytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>15</entry>
<entry>Serial number</entry>
<entry>A character string containing the unique serial number of the coprocessor. The serial number
is factory installed.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>POST2 version</entry>
<entry>A character string identifying the version of the coprocessor's POST2 firmware. The first
four characters define the POST2 version, and the last four characters are reserved and valued to
space characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATDIAG</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Battery state</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value which indicates whether the battery on the
coprocessor needs to be replaced: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The battery is good.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The battery should be replaced.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Intrusion latch state</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value which indicates whether the intrusion latch on
the coprocessor is set or cleared: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The latch is cleared.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The latch is set.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>Error log status</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value which indicates whether there is data in the
coprocessor <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> error log: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The error log is empty.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The error log contains abnormal termination data, but is not yet full.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>The error log is full and cannot hold any more data.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>Mesh intrusion</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether the coprocessor has
detected tampering with the protective mesh that surrounds the secure module. This indicates a
probable attempt to physically penetrate the module: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>No intrusion has been detected.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>An intrusion attempt has been detected.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>Low voltage detected</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether a power-supply voltage was
below the minimum acceptable level. This might indicate an attempt to attack the security module:
<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Only acceptable voltages have been detected.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>A voltage has been detected below the low-voltage tamper threshold.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>High voltage detected</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value indicates whether a power-supply voltage was
greater than the maximum acceptable level. This might indicate an attempt to attack the security
module: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Only acceptable voltages have been detected.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>A voltage has been detected greater than the high-voltage tamper threshold.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>Temperature range exceeded</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether the temperature in the
secure module was outside of the acceptable limits. This might indicate an attempt to attack the
security module: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>The temperature is acceptable.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>The temperature has been detected outside of an acceptable limit.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>8</entry>
<entry>Radiation detected</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether radiation was detected
inside the secure module. This might indicate an attempt to attack the security module: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>No radiation has been detected.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Radiation has been detected.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>9, 11, 13, 15, 17</entry>
<entry>Last 5 commands run</entry>
<entry>These five <i>rule_array</i> elements contain the last five commands that were run by the
coprocessor <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> application. They are
in chronological order, with the most recent command in element 9. Each element contains the
security API command code in the first four characters and the subcommand code in the last four
characters. See <xref href="wskc_alpha_security_api.dita#alpa_security_api/security_api-codes"
/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>10, 12, 14, 16, 18</entry>
<entry>Last 5 return codes</entry>
<entry>These five <i>rule_array</i> elements contain the security API return codes and reason codes
corresponding to the five commands in <i>rule_array</i> elements 9, 11, 13, 15, and 17. Each element
contains the return code in the first four characters and the reason code in the last four
characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATEID</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1, 2</entry>
<entry>EID</entry>
<entry>The two elements, when concatenated, provide the 16-byte Environment Identifier (EID)
value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3" rev="sh18i2"><i>Output rule_array for option
STATEXPT</i>, when a function control vector (FCV) is loaded. Returns space characters in each of the 
six rule array elements if an FCV is not loaded.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Base <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> services
availability</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether base <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> services are available: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>Base <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> services are not
available.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Base <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> services are
available.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>56-bit DES availability</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether 56-bit DES encryption is
available: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>56-bit DES encryption is not available.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>56-bit DES encryption is available.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>Triple-DES availability</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether Triple-DES encryption is
available: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>Triple-DES encryption is not available.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Triple-DES encryption is available.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>SET services availability</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing a value to indicate whether SET (secure electronic
transaction) services are available: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>SET services are not available. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>SET services are available.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<note>The SET services are not supported in the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/> environment.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>Maximum modulus for symmetric key encryption</entry>
<entry>A numeric character string containing the maximum modulus size enabled for the encryption of
symmetric keys. This defines the longest public-key modulus that can be used for key management of
symmetric-algorithm keys.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATICSA</i>
<p>This keyword also has verb data returned in the <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph> field. See
<xref href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Card serial number</entry>
<entry>Eight ASCII characters for the adapter serial number</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>DES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>DES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>PKA new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>PKA current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>PKA old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>8</entry>
<entry>AES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the AES new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>9</entry>
<entry>AES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the AES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>10</entry>
<entry>AES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the AES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATICSB</i>
<p>This keyword also has verb data returned in the <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph> field. See
<xref href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Card serial number</entry>
<entry>Eight ASCII characters for the adapter serial number</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>DES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>DES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>PKA new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>PKA current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>PKA old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh22i1">
<entry>8</entry>
<entry>AES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the AES new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row  rev="sh22i1">
<entry>9</entry>
<entry>AES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the AES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh22i1">
<entry>10</entry>
<entry>AES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the AES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>11</entry>
<entry>APKA new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the APKA new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>APKA current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the APKA current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>13</entry>
<entry>APKA old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the APKA old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATICSE</i>
<p>This keyword also has verb data returned in the <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph> field. See
<xref href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Card serial number</entry>
<entry>Eight ASCII characters for the adapter serial number</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>DES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>DES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>PKA new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>PKA current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>PKA old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATICSF</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Card serial number</entry>
<entry>Eight ASCII characters for the adapter serial number</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES new master-ky register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>DES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>DES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>PKA new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>PKA current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>PKA old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATICSX</i>
<p>This keyword also has verb data returned in the <synph><var>verb_data</var></synph> field. See
<xref href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Card serial number</entry>
<entry>Eight ASCII characters for the adapter serial number</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>DES new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>DES current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>DES old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the DES old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>PKA new master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA new master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Empty</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Partially full</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Full</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>PKA current master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA current master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>PKA old master-key register state</entry>
<entry>An ASCII number showing the state of the PKA old master-key register: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Invalid</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Valid</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option STATMOFN</i>
<p>Elements 1 and 2 are treated as a 16-byte string, as are elements 3 and 4, with the high-order 15
bytes containing meaningful information and the 16th byte containing a space character. Each byte
provides status information about the <synph><var>i</var></synph>th share, 1 ≤
<synph><var>i</var></synph> ≤ 15, of master-key information.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1, 2</entry>
<entry>Master-key shares generation</entry>
<entry>The 15 individual bytes are set to one of these character values: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>Cannot be generated</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Can be generated</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  2</dt>
<dd>Has been generated but not distributed</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Generated and distributed once</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  4</dt>
<dd>Generated and distributed more than once</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3, 4</entry>
<entry>Master-key shares reception</entry>
<entry>The 15 individual bytes are set to one of these character values: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>Cannot be received</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Can be received</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  3</dt>
<dd>Has been received</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  4</dt>
<dd>Has been received more than once</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry><synph><var>m</var></synph></entry>
<entry>The minimum number of shares required to instantiate a master key through the
master-key-shares process. The value is returned in two characters, valued from 01 – 15, followed by
six space characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry><synph><var>n</var></synph></entry>
<entry>The maximum number of distinct shares involved in the master-key shares
process. The value is returned in two characters, valued from 01 - 15, followed by six space
characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option TIMEDATE</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Date</entry>
<entry>The current date is returned as a character string of the form YYYYMMDD, where: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>YYYY</dt>
<dd>Represents the year.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>MM</dt>
<dd>Represents the month (01 - 12).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>DD</dt>
<dd>Represents the day of the month (01 - 31).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Time</entry>
<entry>The current UTC time of day is returned as a character string of the form HHMMSS, where: <dl
compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>HH</dt>
<dd>Represents the hour (0 - 23).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>MM</dt>
<dd>Represents the minute (0 - 59).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SS</dt>
<dd>Represents second (0 - 59).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3</entry>
<entry>Day of the week</entry>
<entry>The day of the week is returned as a number between 1 (Sunday) and 7 (Saturday).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option TKESTATE</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>TKE access enabled</entry>
<entry>Indicates whether a TKE can be used to administer this <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/>. Values are: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>TKEPERM</dt>
<dd>Allowed</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>TKEDENY</dt>
<dd>Not allowed</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"><i>Output rule_array for option WRAPMTHD</i></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Internal tokens</entry>
<entry>Default wrapping method for internal tokens. <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>Keys are be wrapped with the original method.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Keys are be wrapped with the enhanced X9.24 method.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>External tokens</entry>
<entry>Default wrapping method for external tokens. <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>  0</dt>
<dd>Keys are wrapped with the original method.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>  1</dt>
<dd>Keys are wrapped with the enhanced X9.24 method.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>verb_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <synph><var>verb_data_length</var></synph> parameter is a pointer to an integer variable
containing the number of bytes of data in the <i>verb-data</i> variable.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>verb_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>A pointer to a string variable containing output data that is returned for some of the
keywords specified in the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. This output is described in a
separate section for each keyword in <xref href="wskc_r_cfq_vdras390.dita#l0wskc02_cfq_vdras390"
/>.</p>
</pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
