<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_chp2mesauthproc">
<title>Processing message authentication code</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Processing message authentication</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Processing message authentication
code</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The process of verifying the integrity and authenticity of transmitted
messages is called <i>message authentication</i>. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>MAC<indexterm>managing</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>message authentication<indexterm>definition</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>MAC</indexterm>
<indexterm>MACVER</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Message authentication code (MAC) processing allows you to verify
that a message was not altered or a message was not fraudulently introduced
onto the system. You can check that a message you have received is
the same one sent by the message originator. The message itself can
be in clear or encrypted form. The comparison is performed within
the cryptographic coprocessor. Because both the sender and receiver
share a secret cryptographic key used in the MAC calculation, the
MAC comparison also ensures the authenticity of the message.</p>
<p>In a similar manner, MACs can be used to ensure the integrity of
data stored on the system or on removable media, such as tape.</p>
<p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key typing makes it possible to
give one party a key that can only be used to generate a MAC, and to give another party a
corresponding key that can only be used to verify the MAC. This ensures that the second party cannot
impersonate the first by generating MACs with their version of the key.</p>
<p>The coprocessor provides support for both single-length and double-length
MAC generation and MAC verification keys. With the ANSI X9.9-1 single
key algorithm, use the single-length MAC and MACVER keys.</p>
<p>CCA provides support for the use of data-encrypting keys in the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> verbs, and also the use of a MAC
generation key in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> verb.
This support permits <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> MAC verbs to
interface more smoothly with non-CCA key distribution system.</p>
<p>HMAC codes are computed using the FIPS-198 Keyed-Hash Message Authentication
Code method. See <xref href="wskc_c_apmac.dita#l0wskc02_apmac"/>.</p>
<p>These verbs are used to process MACs:
<ul>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmgn"/>)</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/>)</li>
</ul></p>
</conbody></concept>