<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_install_rpm_ksi" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Using panel.exe for key storage initialization</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Using panel.exe for key storage initialization </navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Using panel.exe for key storage
initialization</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Each application using <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
typically creates key objects that are stored in the host, protected by the master key stored inside
the card. Perform the steps described in this topic for key storage initialization.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>utilities<indexterm>panel.exe</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>panel.exe<indexterm>utility</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<ol>
<li>The default locations for the files are setup by the <ph rev="sh18i2"><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> package</ph> in environment variables added
in the new profile files <codeph>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.sh</codeph> and
<codeph>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.csh</codeph> during installation. Key storage is unsupported without
a master key loaded, so <synph><kwd>Master key load</kwd></synph> (Step <xref
href="wskc_t_insconrpm.dita#l0wskc02_insconrpm/l0wskc02_install_rpm_mkl"/>) must be completed before
this step. The utility <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> can be used to initialize both the default key
storage and any separate key storage you might want to set up. The full topic is too lengthy for
this explanation (see the key storage topics elsewhere in this manual, including the verb <xref
href="wskc_r_ksi.dita#l0wskc02_ksi"/>). In brief, an application can specify a particular key
storage location. That non-default key storage can be initialized now (or later) by using
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> or with a program using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmksi"/> verb. <?Pub Caret 63?></li>
<li>The key storage environment variables in the default user profile
(<codeph>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.sh</codeph>) are changed at installation time to point to the
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/keys/ path. There is one
set of environment variables for a profile. <ph rev="sh18i2">Users can override this by setting a
local profile in their home <codeph> .profile</codeph> file that sets the environment variables
differently.</ph></li>
<li>Key storage ownership <p>The default key storage files are actually partially created (but not
fully initialized) during the master key load process. This means the ownership and permissions of
those files might have to be changed for them to be fully initialized by the user associated with
the application that uses the key storage files.</p><p>Because of the mutually exclusive nature of
the master key administrator groups, there can be some harmless access errors reported to the system
log during master key load. The example users created previously in <synph><kwd>Master key
load</kwd></synph> Step <xref href="wskc_t_insconrpm.dita#l0wskc02_insconrpm/l0wskc02_mkls7a3"
>7.3)a)</xref> avoids this. You do not need to fix key storage ownership because they were all
created with the primary group set to <codeph>cca_admin</codeph> (the -g argument to
<cmdname>useradd</cmdname>). By doing this, the first master key load creates the key storage files
with group set to <codeph>cca_admin</codeph> and subsequent users all have membership in that group.
You still might want to fix the owner of default key storage at the end to be the
<codeph>root</codeph> user, but the group membership solves the access issue.</p>
<p>Typically, the <codeph>root</codeph> user needs to fix the ownership and permissions. We
recommend that the owner of key storage should be the <codeph>root</codeph> user, and that the group
be <codeph>cca_admin</codeph> (<codeph>cca_admin</codeph> group is created during the <ph
rev="sh18i2"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> package</ph> install
process). We recommend that the permissions be set to 660, which is <codeph>rw</codeph> for owner
(<codeph>root</codeph>), <codeph>rw</codeph> for group (<codeph>cca_admin</codeph>), and
<codeph>&lt;none&gt;</codeph> for everyone else, for security. Then add the application user to the
group <codeph>cca_admin</codeph> with the appropriate procedure detailed in <synph><kwd>Master key
load</kwd></synph> Step <xref href="wskc_t_insconrpm.dita#l0wskc02_insconrpm/l0wskc02_mkls7aaa"
/>.</p><p>To be able to use <filepath>/opt/IBM/</filepath><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>, the user must
be either root OR a member of the <codeph>cca_admin</codeph> group (the owner.group of
<codeph>/usr/lib64/libcsulccamk.so</codeph>). The reasons for the separate
<codeph>cca_admin</codeph> group are to allow one owner of
<codeph>/usr/lib64/libcsulccamk.so</codeph>, and to allow use of <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>
without allowing any of the master key processing calls.</p></li>
<li>Key storage initialization with <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>. This is the default. <ol>
<li>Ensure that the permissions to the default location (<filepath>/opt/IBM/</filepath><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/keys/) allow your user to perform
key storage initialization.</li>
<li>Initialize key storage (DES is where DES key tokens are kept, AES is where AES key tokens are
kept, and PKA is for all the RSA public/private internal key tokens). <p rev="sh18i2"
><b><cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> default
syntax</b><screen>
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=AES --ks-init
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=DES --ks-init
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=PKA --ks-init
</screen></p><p
rev="sh18i2"><b><cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> legacy
syntax</b></p><screen>
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe -t AES -i
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe -t DES -i
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe -t PKA -i
</screen></li>
</ol></li>
<li>Key storage initialization with <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> (non-default) <ol>
<li>Ensure that you are using the account that uses the key storage. If you are not, you must fix
its ownership and permissions later.</li>
<li>Initialize all types of key storage (DES is where DES key tokens will be kept, AES is where AES
key tokens will be kept, PKA is for all the RSA public/private internal key tokens). Use a different
name for AES, DES, and PKA, because the second initialization would overwrite the first if different
names are not used. Export new environment variables in the session where you will initialize the
key storage (and where you sill use it), then initialize key storage again: <p rev="sh18i2"
><b><cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> default
syntax</b><screen>
export CSUAESDS=&lt;AES file name&gt;
export CSUDESDS=&lt;DES file name&gt;
export CSUPKADS=&lt;PKA file name&gt;
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=AES --ks-init
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=DES --ks-init
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=PKA --ks-init
</screen></p><p
rev="sh18i2"><b><cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> legacy
syntax</b></p><screen>
export CSUAESDS=&lt;AES file name&gt;
export CSUDESDS=&lt;DES file name&gt;
export CSUPKADS=&lt;PKA file name&gt;
/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/panel.exe -t AES -i
/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/panel.exe -t DES -i
/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/panel.exe -t PKA -i
</screen><p
rev="sh18i2">For example, if you entered the following commands in default syntax:
<screen>
export CSUAESDS=/tmp/a
export CSUDESDS=/tmp/d
export CSUPKADS=/tmp/p
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=AES --ks-init
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=DES --ks-init
/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe --ks-type=PKA --ks-init
</screen></p><p>these
files would be created:</p><pre>
/tmp/a
/tmp/a.NDX
/tmp/d
/tmp/d.NDX
/tmp/p
/tmp/p.NDX</pre></li>
</ol></li>
</ol>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000008042?>
