<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc222">
<title>Cryptography publications</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Cryptography publications</navtitle>
<searchtitle/>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The publications listed in this topic describe cryptographic standards, research, and
practices relevant to the coprocessor.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>cryptography publications</indexterm>
<indexterm>publications about cryptography</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<ul>
<li>Accredited Standards Committee X9, Inc.: X9 TR-31 2010: <cite>Interoperable Secure Key Exchange
Block Specification for Symmetric Algorithms</cite></li>
<li>American Express Travel Related Services Company, Inc.: <cite>American Express Hardware Security
Module (HSM): Function Requirements</cite>, August, 2011. </li>
<li>American National Standards Institute (ANSI). ANSI is the official
U.S. representative to the International Organization for Standardization
(ISO) and, via the U.S. National Committee, the International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC). ANSI is also a member of the International Accreditation
Forum (IAF).
<ul>
<li>ANSI X9.24-1:2009 <cite>Retail Financial Services Symmetric Key Management -- Part 1: Using
Symmetric Techniques.</cite></li>
<li>ANSI X9.24-2:2006 <cite>Retail
Financial Services Symmetric Key Management -- Part 2: Using Asymmetric
Techniques for the Distribution of Symmetric Keys.</cite></li>
<li>ANSI X9.62:2005 <cite>Public
Key Cryptography for the Financial Services Industry: The Elliptic
Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA).</cite></li>
<li>ANSI X9.102:2008 <cite>Symmetric Key Cryptography for the Financial Services Industry --
Wrapping of Keys and Associated Data</cite>. </li>
</ul></li>
<li><cite>ECC Brainpool Standard Curves and Curve Generation</cite>, v.1.0, October 19, 2005 </li>
<li><cite>Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) Brainpool Standard Curves and Curve Generation</cite>
(RFC 5639), Manfred Lochter and Johannes Merkle, IETF Trust, March 2010. Available at <xref
href="http://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc5639.txt" format="html" scope="external"/></li>
<li>Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS), issued by the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST, see <xref href="http://www.nist.gov/itl/" format="html"
scope="external"/>). The listed FIPS publications are available from this web site: <xref
href="https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/fips" format="html" scope="external"><cite>Computer
Security Resource Center</cite>.</xref><ul>
<li>FIPS PUB 140-2 <cite> Security Requirements for Cryptographic Modules</cite>, May, 2001.</li>
<li>FIPS PUB 180-4 <cite>Secure Hash Standard (SHS)</cite>, May, 2012.</li>
<li>FIPS PUB 186-4 <cite>Digital Signature Standard (DSS)</cite>, July, 2013.</li>
<li>FIPS PUB 197 <cite>Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)</cite>, November, 2001. </li>
<li>FIPS PUB 198-1 <cite>The Keyed-Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC)</cite>, July, 2008.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>International Organization for Standardization (ISO). ISO is the
world's largest developer and publisher of International Standards.
ISO is a network of the national standards institutes of many countries,
one member per country, with a Central Secretariat in Geneva, Switzerland,
that coordinates the system.
<ul>
<li>ISO 16609:2004 <cite>Banking
-- Requirements for Message Authentication Using Symmetric Techniques.</cite></li>
<li>ISO/DIS 9564-1 <cite>Financial
Services -- Personal Identification Number (PIN) Management and Security
-- Part 1: Basic Principles and Requirements for PINs in Card-Based
Systems.</cite></li>
<li><xref href="https://www.iso.org/standard/61246.html" format="html" scope="external">ISO
9564-4:2016 <cite> Financial services -- Personal Identification Number (PIN) management and
security -- Part 4: Requirements for PIN handling in eCommerce for Payment
Transactions</cite></xref>
</li>
<li><xref href="https://www.iso.org/standard/64400.html" format="html" scope="external">ISO
20038:2017 <cite> Banking and related financial services -- Key wrap using AES</cite></xref></li>
</ul></li>
<li>International Organization for Standardization/International Electrotechnical
Commission (ISO/IEC)
<ul>
<li>ISO/IEC 9796-1:1997 <cite>Information
Technology -- Security Techniques -- Digital Signature Schemes Giving
Message Recovery -- Part 1: Mechanisms Using Redundancy.</cite></li>
<li>ISO/IEC 11770-3:2008 <cite>Information
Technology -- Security Techniques -- Key Management -- Part 3: Mechanisms
Using Asymmetric Techniques.</cite></li>
</ul></li>
<li>National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Special Publications (SP), U.S. Dept. of
Commerce <ul>
<li>NIST SP 800-38D <cite>Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: Galois/Counter Mode
(GCM) and GMAC</cite>, November 2007. Available at <xref
href="http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-38D/SP-800-38D.pdf" format="pdf"
scope="external"/>.</li>
<li>NIST SP 800-38A <cite>Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operations: Methods and
Techniques</cite>, 2001 Edition. Available at <xref
href="http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-38a/sp800-38a.pdf" format="pdf"
scope="external"/>.</li>
<li>NIST SP 800-38B <cite>Recommendation for Block Cipher Modes of Operation: The CMAC Mode for
Authentication</cite>, May 2005. Available at: <xref
href="https://csrc.nist.gov/publications/detail/sp/800-38b/final" format="html" scope="external"
/>.</li>
<li>NIST SP 800-56A <cite>Recommendation for Pair-Wise Key Establishment Schemes Using Discrete
Logarithm Cryptography (Revision 3)</cite>. Available at <xref
href="https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.SP.800-56Ar3" format="html" scope="external"/>. </li>
<li>NIST SP 800-90A Revision 1 <cite><i>Recommendation for Random Number Generation Using
Deterministic Random Bit Generators</i></cite>, June 2015. Available at: <xref
href="http://nvlpubs.nist.gov/nistpubs/SpecialPublications/NIST.SP.800-90Ar1.pdf" format="pdf"
scope="external"/>.</li>
<li>NIST SP 800-108 <cite>Recommendation for Key Derivation Using Pseudorandom Functions
(Revised)</cite>, October 2009 Edition. Available at: <xref
href="http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800-108/sp800-108.pdf" format="pdf"
scope="external"/>.</li>
<li><cite>The NIST SP 800-90A Deterministic Random Bit Generator Validation System
(DRBGVS)</cite>, updated: October 29, 2015. Available at: <xref
href="http://csrc.nist.gov/groups/STM/cavp/documents/drbg/DRBGVS.pdf" format="pdf" scope="external"
/>.</li>
</ul></li>
<li rev="sh21i1"><b>OASIS Standards</b>
<ul>
<li>
<codeblock><xref href="https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v3.0/pkcs11-base-v3.0.html" format="html" scope="external">PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface Base Specification Version 3.0</xref></codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<codeblock><xref href="https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-profiles/v3.0/pkcs11-profiles-v3.0.html" format="html" scope="external">PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface Profiles Version 3.0</xref></codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<codeblock><xref href="https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-curr/v3.0/pkcs11-curr-v3.0.html" format="html" scope="external">PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface Current Mechanisms Specification Version 3.0</xref></codeblock>
</li>
<li>
<codeblock><xref href="https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-hist/v3.0/pkcs11-hist-v3.0.html" format="html" scope="external">PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface Historical Mechanisms Specification Version 3.0</xref></codeblock>
</li>
</ul></li>

<li><cite>Visa Integrated Circuit Card Specification (VIS) Version 1.5</cite>, Visa International
Service Association and Visa Inc. Available at <xref
href="https://www.scribd.com/doc/87334890/Visa-VIS-Specification-15-May-2009" format="html"
scope="external"/>.</li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>
