<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_mskarr">
<title>Providing the control information for testing the control vectors</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Providing the control information for testing the control vectors</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Providing the control information for
testing the control vectors</searchtitle>
  </titlealts><shortdesc>To minimize your security exposure, the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcvt"/> <ph>verb</ph> requires
control information (<i>mask array</i> information)
to limit the range of allowable control vector changes. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords><!--Insert <indexterm> tags here--></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>To ensure that this verb is used only for authorized purposes,
the source-key control vector, target-key control vector, and key-encrypting
key (KEK) control vector must pass specific tests. The tests on the
control vectors are performed within the secured cryptographic engine.</p>
<p>The tests consist of evaluating four logic expressions, the results
of which must be a string of binary zeros. The expressions operate
bitwise on information that is contained in the mask arrays and in
the portions of the control vectors associated with the key or key-half
that is being processed. If any of the expression evaluations do not
result in all zero bits, the <ph>verb</ph> is ended with a <i>control vector violation</i> return and reason code
(8/39). See <xref href="wskc_c_appcmaskarrprep.dita#l0wskc02_appcmaskarrprep/l0wskc02_cvxl2"/>. Only the 56-bit
positions that are associated with a key value are evaluated. The
low-order bit that is associated with key parity in each key byte
is not evaluated.</p>
</conbody></concept>