<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_chp8pinenckey">
<title>PIN-Encrypting keys</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>PIN-Encrypting keys</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> ():
PIN-Encrypting keys</searchtitle>
  </titlealts><shortdesc>A unique master key variant enciphers each type of key.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>personal identification number (PIN)<indexterm>encrypting
key</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Note that the PIN block variant constant (PBVC) are not supported
in this version of CCA.</p>
<section>
<title>Derived unique key per transaction algorithms</title>
<p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> supports ANSI X9.24 derived
unique key per transaction algorithms to generate PIN-encrypting keys from user data.</p>
<p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> supports both single-length and
double-length key generation. Keywords for single-length and double-length key generation cannot be
mixed.</p>
</section>
<section><title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"
/></title><indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>)</indexterm><p>The
<synph><kwd>UKPTIPIN</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>IPKTOPIN</kwd></synph>, and
<synph><kwd>UKPTBOTH</kwd></synph> keywords will cause the verb to generate single-length keys. and
<synph><kwd>DUKPT-IP</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>DKPT-OP</kwd></synph>, and
<synph><kwd>DUKPT-BH</kwd></synph> are the respective keywords to generate double-length keys.
</p><p>The <i>input_PIN_profile</i> and <i>output_PIN_profile</i> parameters must supply the current
key serial number when these keywords are specified.</p></section>
<section>
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/></title>
<p>The <synph><kwd>UKPTIPIN</kwd></synph> keyword will cause the verb to verify single-length keys.
<synph><kwd>DUKPT-IP</kwd></synph> is the keyword for double-length key generation. </p>
<p>The <synph><var>input_PIN_profile</var></synph> parameter must supply the current key serial
number when these keywords are specified.</p>
</section>
</conbody></concept>