<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept id="acodas_basrole_struct" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16">
<title>Basic structure of a role</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Basic role structure</navtitle>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Basic structure of a role</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>View a table that describes how the role data is structured.</shortdesc> 
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>access control data structures<indexterm>basic structure of a role</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>role structures<indexterm>basic structure of a role</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>basic structure of a role</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>

<table id="acodas_baserole_struct_tab" frame="all">
<title>Access-control system: basic structure of a role</title>
<desc><p outputclass="summary">Access-control system: basic structure of a role. 
A table with three columns providing Offset, length and a description.</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="7*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>00</entry>
<entry>01</entry>
<entry>Role structure major version number: X'01'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>01</entry>
<entry>01</entry>
<entry>Role structure minor version number: X'00'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>Role structure length (big endian).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>04</entry>
<entry>20</entry>
<entry>Comment.<p>A 20-character variable padded on the right with spaces, 
containing a comment which describes the role. 
This variable is not null (X'00') terminated.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>24</entry>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>Checksum (big endian).<p>The checksum value is not used in the current role structure. It can
be verified by the <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> Cryptographic Coprocessor with a future
version of the role structure.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>26</entry>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>Reserved (big endian): X'0000'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>28</entry>
<entry>08</entry>
<entry>Role ID.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>36</entry>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>Required authentication strength (big endian). 
<p>A 2-byte integer defining how secure the user authentication must be in order to
authorize this role.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>38</entry>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>Lower time limit. <p>The earliest time of day that this role can be used. 
Format is <codeph>h : m</codeph> where:</p> 
<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>h</dt>
<dd>Hour in 24-hour format (binary integer, 0 - 23).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>m</dt>
<dd>Minute (binary integer, 0 - 59).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>40</entry>
<entry>02</entry>
<entry>Upper time limit. <p>The latest time of day that this role can be used. Format is the same as
lower time limit (offset 38).</p><p>If the lower time limit and upper time limit are identical, the
role is valid for use at any time of the day.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>42</entry>
<entry>01</entry>
<entry>Valid days of week (DOW): 
<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0xxx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Sunday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'1xxx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Sunday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'x0xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Monday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'x1xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Monday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xx0x xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Tuesday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xx1x xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Tuesday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxx0 xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Wednesday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxx1 xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Wednesday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx 0xxx'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Thursday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx 1xxx'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Thursday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx x0xx'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Friday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx x1xx'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Friday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx0x'</dt>
<dd>Role cannot be used on Saturday.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx1x'</dt>
<dd>Role can be used on Saturday.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xxx0'</dt>
<dd>Reserved (must be 0).</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xxx1'</dt>
<dd>Undefined.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>43</entry>
<entry>01</entry>
<entry>Reserved (X'00')</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>44</entry>
<entry>variable</entry>
<entry>Access-control-point list (permitted or disallowed operations). The permitted operations are
defined by the access control point list, described in <xref
href="wskc_acodas_role_acp.dita#acodas_role_acp/acplist_struc"/>.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003873?>
