<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csnbukd" rev="sh15">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> verb performs
    the key derivation process as defined in ANSI X9.24 Part 1.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/>)</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p rev="sh21i1">The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/>) verb can perform the key derivation
process for DES-DUKPT as defined in ANSI X9.24 2007 Part 1 or the key derivation process for
AES-DUKPT as defined in ANSI X9.24 2017 Part 3.</p>
      <p>The process derives keys from two values: the base derivation key and the derivation
        data:</p>
      <ul>
        <li rev="sh21i1">The base derivation key is the key from which the others are derived. For
        DES-DUKPT, this must be a DES KEYGENKY with the UKPT bit (bit 18) set to 1 in the Control Vector. For AES-DUKPT, this must
        be an AES DKYGENKY key with the A-DUKPT bit set to 1 in the low-order byte of key usage field 1.</li>
        <li>The derivation data is used to make the derived key specific to a particular device and
to a specific transaction from that device. The derivation data, called the Current Key Serial
Number (CKSN), is the 80-bit concatenation of the device's 59-bit Initial Key Serial Number value
and the 21-bit value of the current encryption counter which the device increments for each new
transaction. <ph rev="sh21i1">The derivation data for AES-DUKPT, as described in ANSI X9.24-3, is
used to provide input parameters for the AES DUKPT key derivation function. The derivation data for
AES-DUKPT is defined in <xref href="wskc_aes_dukpt.dita"/></ph>.</li>
      </ul>
      <p>The initial pin encryption key (IPEK) is derived from the base derivation key and the
initial derivation data. Specify the K3IPEK rule array keyword to return the IPEK. </p>
      <p>Rule array keywords determine the types and number of keys derived on a particular call.
See the rule array parameter description for more information. </p>
      <p>Output keys are wrapped using the mode configured as the default wrapping mode, either
        enhanced wrapping mode (WRAP-ENH) or original ECB wrapping mode (WRAP-ECB).</p>
<note>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note>
    </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
