<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_howuse" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>How to use this document</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>How to use this document</navtitle>
<searchtitle/>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read an overview of the information in each section of this document.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords/>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>For encryption, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> supports
Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), Data Encryption Standard (DES), public key cryptography <ph>(PKA
or RSA)</ph>, and Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC). These are very different cryptographic systems.
<ph>Additionally, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> provides APIs
for generating and verifying Message Authentication Codes (MACs), Hashed Message Authentication
Codes (HMACs), hashes, and PINS, as well as other cryptographic functions.</ph></p>
<p><xref href="wskc_c_pt1.dita#l0wskc02_pt1"/> includes the following chapters: <ul>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_appgm.dita#l0wskc02_appgm"/> describes the programming considerations for
using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs. It also explains
the syntax and parameter definitions used in <ph>verbs</ph>. Information about concurrency is also
provided.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_pci_hsm_compliance.dita#wskc_pci_hsm_compliance"/> describes the
support for compliance-tagged tokens introduced with <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 6.0 It gives links to further related
information in this document, and discusses the new warning mode to aid installations in detecting
migration concerns. </li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_apint.dita#l0wskc02_apint"/> gives an overview of AES, DES, and HMAC
cryptography, and provides general guidance information on how these verbs use different key types
and key forms.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_pkaint.dita#l0wskc02_pkaint"/> introduces Public Key Algorithm (PKA) support
and describes programming considerations for using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> PKA and ECC verbs, such as the PKA key
token structure and key management.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_l0wskc03_zapgtr31.dita#l0wskc03_zapgtr31"/> introduces TR-31 support and how
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> uses an IBM-defined optional block
in a TR-31 key block.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_understand_mkeys.dita#understand_mkeys"/> provides information about master key
management.</li>
</ul></p>
<p><xref href="wskc_r_pt2a.dita#l0wskc02_pt2a"/> includes the following topics: </p>
<ul>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_acc.dita#l0wskc02_acc"/> describes using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> resource control verbs.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_apmky.dita#l0wskc02_apmky"/> describes the verbs for generating and
maintaining DES and AES cryptographic keys, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrng"/> verb (which generates 8-byte random
numbers), the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrng2"/> verb (which
generates up to 8192 bytes of random content), and the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) security protocol.
This chapter also describes utilities to build DES and AES tokens, generate and translate control
vectors, and describes the PKA verbs that support DES and AES key distribution.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_apenc.dita#l0wskc02_apenc"/> describes the <ph>verbs</ph> for enciphering and
deciphering data. </li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_apmac.dita#l0wskc02_apmac"/> describes the <ph>verbs</ph> for generating and
verifying Message Authentication Codes (MACs), generating and verifying Hashed Message
Authentication Codes (HMACs), generating Modification Detection Codes (MDCs), and generating hashes
(SHA-1, SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384, SHA-512, MD5, RIPEMD-160).</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_zapgkyst.dita#l0wskc02_zapgkyst"/> describes the use of key storage, key
tokens, and associated verbs.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_appin.dita#l0wskc02_appin"/> describes the <ph>verbs</ph> for use in support
of finance-industry applications. This includes several categories. <ul>
<li>Verbs for generating, verifying, and translating personal identification numbers (PINS).</li>
<li>Verbs that generate and verify VISA card verification values and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/amex"/> card security codes.</li>
<li>Verbs to support smart card applications using the EMV (Europay MasterCard Visa) standards.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_appin_dk.dita#wskc_appin_dk"/> describes the verbs for PIN methods and
requirements for financial services specified by the German Banking Industry Committee,
<term>Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft</term> (DK).</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_tr34.dita"/>  describes the verbs used to manage TR-34 key blocks
and TR-34 functions.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_l0wskc03_zapgtr31v.dita#l0wskc03_zapgtr31v"/> describes the verbs used to
manage TR-31 key blocks and TR-31 functions.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_pk3.dita#l0wskc02_pk3"/> describes the <ph>verbs</ph> that support using
digital signatures to authenticate messages.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_pk4.dita#l0wskc02_pk4"/> describes the <ph>verbs</ph> that generate and
manage PKA keys.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_utility_verbs.dita#utility_verbs"/>  describes the utility verb
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclxea"/> which is provided for code
conversion.</li>
</ul>
<p><xref href="wskc_appendix_part.dita#appendix_part"/> includes the following information: </p>
<ul>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_aprec.dita#l0wskc02_aprec"/> explains the return and reason codes returned by
the <ph>verbs</ph>.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_aptkn.dita#l0wskc02_aptkn"/> describes the formats for AES, DES internal,
external, and null key tokens, for PKA public, private external, and private internal key tokens
containing Rivest-Shamir-Adleman (RSA) information, PKA null key tokens, ECC key tokens, HMAC key
tokens, Transaction Validation Values (TVVs), and trusted blocks.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_kegekf.dita#l0wskc02_kegekf"/> describes the key forms and types used by the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"/> verb.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_ap1me.dita#l0wskc02_ap1me"/> contains a table of the default control vector
values that are associated with each key type and describes the control information for testing
control vectors, mask array preparation, selecting the key-half processing mode, and an example of
using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcvt"/> verb.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_keytvec.dita"/> introduces a DK key type vector (KTV) which is
used to define how to generate or derive the intended AES variable-length symmetric key.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_ap2me.dita#l0wskc02_ap2me"/> describes the PIN notation, formats, extraction
rules, and algorithms.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_zapgapd2.dita#l0wskc02_zapgapd2"/> describes various ciphering and key
verification algorithms, as well as the formatting of hashes and keys.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"/> lists the access control points and their
corresponding verbs.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_acodas_intro.dita#acodas_intro"/> documents the data structures that are used
in the access control system.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_pci_hsm_intro.dita#wskc_pci_hsm_intro"/> informs about how to
manage keys, verbs and applications that should apply the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>compliance standard.</li>
<li rev="sh21i1"><xref href="wskc_aes_dukpt.dita"/> presents information about the use of AES keys with derived unique key per transaction 
(DUKPT) processing.
</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_codesamp.dita#l0wskc02_codesamp"/> contains sample verb call routines, both
in C and <tm tmtype="tm" trademark="Java">Java</tm>, that illustrates the practical application of
CCA verb calls.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_setup.dita#l0wskc02_setup"/> includes tips to help you set up your system for
the first time.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_install.dita#l0wskc02_install"/> includes RPM installation, configuration,
and uninstallation instructions.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_coexist.dita#l0wskc02_coexist"/> includes information about using various
versions of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> features in the
same system, and other restrictions.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_utilities.dita#l0wskc02_utilities"/> describes the <cmdname>ivp.e</cmdname>
and <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utilities.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_alpha_security_api.dita#alpa_security_api"/> contains an alphabetical list of
security API command and sub-command codes returned by the output <parmname>rule-array</parmname>
for option STATDIAG of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/>
verb.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_oc_opencryptoki.dita#opencryptoki"/> provides information about <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> which is an open source implementation
of the <term>Cryptoki</term> API as defined by the industry-wide <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pkcs11"/> Cryptographic Token Interface
Standard.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_l0wskc03_abbrev.dita#l0wskc03_abbrev"/> contains definitions of abbreviations
used.</li>
<?Pub Caret 1?>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000007387?>
