<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_kyt_ext">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/>)</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>This verb is essentially the same as Key Test (CSNBKYT).</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>verification pattern</indexterm>
<indexterm>key part</indexterm>
<indexterm>external key</indexterm>
<indexterm>clear key</indexterm>
<indexterm>GENERATE</indexterm>
<indexterm>VERIFY</indexterm>
<indexterm>SYM-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>ASYM-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>AES-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>KEY-KM</indexterm>
<indexterm>KEY-NKM</indexterm>
<indexterm>KEY-OKM</indexterm>
<indexterm>ENC-ZERO</indexterm>
<indexterm>KEY-ENC</indexterm>
<indexterm>KEY-ENCD</indexterm>
<indexterm>TOKEN</indexterm>
<indexterm>MDC-4</indexterm>
<indexterm>SHA-1</indexterm>
<indexterm>SHA-256</indexterm>
<indexterm>NOADJUST</indexterm>
<indexterm>ADJUST</indexterm>
<indexterm>odd parity</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For further information, see <xref href="wskc_r_kyt.dita#l0wskc02_kyt"/>. The differences
are:
<ul>
<li>In addition to operating on internal keys and key parts, this
verb also operates on external keys and key parts.</li>
<li>This verb does not operate on clear keys, and does not accept <i>rule_array</i> keywords <synph><kwd>CLR-A128</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>CLR-A192</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>CLR-A256</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>KEY-CLR</kwd></synph>,
and <synph><kwd>KEY-CLRD</kwd></synph>.</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section><p>See also <xref href="wskc_r_kyt.dita#l0wskc02_kyt"/> for operating only on internal
keys.</p></section>
<section><p>Use this verb to verify the value of a key or key part in an external
or internal key token. This verb supports two options:
<dl>
<dlentry><dt>GENERATE</dt>
<dd>To compute and return a verification pattern for a specified
key.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>VERIFY</dt>
<dd>To verify that a passed verification pattern is correct for
the specified key.
<p>The verification pattern and the verification
process do not reveal any information about the value of the tested
key, other than equivalency of two key values. Several verification
algorithms are supported.</p></dd></dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section><p>This verb supports testing of AES, DES, and PKA master keys, and enciphered keys or key parts.
<i>rule_array</i> keywords are used to specify information about the target key that is not implicit
from other verb parameters.</p></section>
<section><p>When testing the master keys, there are two sets of <i>rule_array</i> keywords
to indicate what key to test:
<ol>
<li>The <synph><kwd>SYM-MK</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ASYM-MK</kwd></synph>, and
<synph><kwd>AES-MK</kwd></synph> master-key selector keywords indicate whether to test the DES
(symmetric) master key, the PKA (asymmetric) master key, or the AES master key.</li>
<li>The <synph><kwd>KEY-KM</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>KEY-NKM</kwd></synph>, and <synph><kwd>KEY-OKM</kwd></synph> key
or key-part <i>rule_array</i> keywords choose among
the current-master-key register, the new-master-key register, and
the old-master-key register.</li>
</ol></p></section>
<section><p>Not specifying a master-key selector keyword (<synph><kwd>SYM-MK</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ASYM-MK</kwd></synph>,
or <synph><kwd>AES-MK</kwd></synph>) means that the DES (symmetric) and PKA (asymmetric)
master keys have the same value, and that you want to test that value.</p></section>
<section><p>Several key test algorithms are supported by the verb. See <xref href="wskc_c_keyverm.dita#l0wskc02_keyverm"/>. Some are implicitly selected based on the
type of key you are testing, while others are optional and selected
by specifying a verification process rule keyword. You can specify
one of the following:
<ol>
<li>The <synph><kwd>ENC-ZERO</kwd></synph> keyword to encrypt a block of binary zeros
with the specified key. This verb returns the leftmost 32 bits of
the encryption result as the verification pattern. The encrypted block
consists of 16 bytes of binary zeros for AES, and eight bytes for
DES and Triple-DES keys. This method is valid only with the <synph><kwd>TOKEN</kwd></synph> keyword
for AES, and <synph><kwd>KEY-ENC</kwd></synph> and <synph><kwd>KEY-ENCD</kwd></synph> keywords for DES.</li>
<li>The <synph><kwd>MDC-4</kwd></synph> keyword to compute a 16-byte verification pattern
using the MDC-4 algorithm. This keyword is valid only when computing
the verification pattern for a DES (symmetric) or PKA (asymmetric)
master key.</li>
<li>The <synph><kwd>SHA-1</kwd></synph> keyword to compute the verification pattern
using the SHA-1 hashing method. This keyword is valid only when computing
the verification pattern for the DES (symmetric) or PKA (asymmetric)
master key.</li>
<li>The <synph><kwd>SHA-256</kwd></synph> keyword to compute the verification pattern
using the SHA-256 hashing method. This keyword is valid only when
computing the verification pattern for an AES key.</li>
</ol></p></section>
<section><p><xref href="wskc_r_kyt.dita#l0wskc02_kyt/l0wskc02_kyt_tab1"/> describes the use of the <synph><var>random_number</var></synph> and <synph><var>verification_pattern</var></synph> fields
for each of the available verification methods.</p></section><section>
<note>For historical reasons, the verification information
is passed in two 8-byte variables pointed to by the <synph><var>random_number</var></synph> and <synph><var>verification_pattern</var></synph> parameters.
The <synph><kwd>GENERATE</kwd></synph> option returns information in these two variables,
and the <synph><kwd>VERIFY</kwd></synph> option uses the information provided in these
two variables. If the verb cannot verify the information provided,
it returns a return code of 4 and a reason code of 1. For simplicity,
these two variables can be two 8-byte elements of a 16-byte array,
which is processed by your application program as a single quantity.
Both parameters must be coded when calling the API.</note></section>
<section><p>DES and Triple-DES keys reserve the low-order bit of each byte for parity. If parity is used, the
low-order bit is set so that the total number of <ph>B'1'</ph> bits in the byte is odd. These parity
adjustment keywords allow you to control how the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/> verb handles the parity bits: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>NOADJUST</dt>
<dd>Specifies not to alter the parity bit values in any way. This is the default.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ADJUST</dt>
<dd>Specifies to modify the low-order bit of each byte as necessary for odd parity. <p>This is done
on the cleartext value of the key before the verification pattern is computed. The parity adjustment
is performed only on a temporary copy of the key within the card, and does not affect the key value
in the <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> parameter.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<note rev="sh18i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>