<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_varlensym" rev="shr2">
<title>Variable-length symmetric key tokens</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Variable-length symmetric key tokens</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Variable-length symmetric key
tokens</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> supports a
variable-length symmetric key-token. This key token has a version number of X'05' (offset 4). Use
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktb2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktb2"/>) verb to build skeleton
variable-length symmetric key tokens used as input by the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn2"/>) or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkpi2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkpi2"/>) verbs, which return these key tokens
with encrypted keys in the key-token payload.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>variable-length</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm> key token<indexterm>symmetric</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>variable-length key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>symmetric key token</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p><xref href="wskc_general_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_general_varlen/table_general_vlskt"/> shows the
general format of the token version number X'05' key token.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_cipher_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_cipher/aes_cipher_vlskt"/> shows the format
of the CIPHER variable-length symmetric key-token that can be used with the AES algorithm. An AES
CIPHER key-token is used by the Symmetric_Algorithm_Decipher (CSNBSAD) and
Symmetric_Algorithm_Encipher (CSNBSAE) verbs to decipher or encipher data with the AES
algorithm.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_mac_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_mac/aes_cipher_vlskt"/> shows the format of the
MAC variable-length symmetric key-token that can be used with the AES algorithm.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_r_hvlsktok.dita#l0wskc02_hvlsktok/l0wskc01_hmvlskt_tab1"/> shows the format of
the MAC variable-length symmetric key-token that can be used with the HMAC algorithm. An HMAC MAC
key-token is used by the HMAC_Generate (CSNBHMG) and HMAC_Verify (CSNBHMV) verbs to generate or
verify keyed hash message authentication codes.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_eximporter_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_eximporter/aes_eximporter_vlskt"/> shows
the format of the EXPORTER and IMPORTER variable-length symmetric key tokens that can be used with
the AES algorithm. An EXPORTER operational key-token is used by the Symmetric_Key_Export (CSNDSYX)
verb to export an internal AES or HMAC variable-length symmetric key-token into an external
variable-length symmetric key-token, either into an AESKW or PKOAEP2 wrapped payload. An IMPORTER
operational key-token is used by the Symmetric_Key_Import2 (CSNDSYI2) verb to import an external AES
or HMAC variable-length symmetric key-token, containing either an AESKW or PKOAEP2 wrapped payload,
into an internal variable-length symmetric key-token.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_pinpcp_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_pinpcp/aes_pinpcp_vlskt"/> shows the format
of the PINPROT, PINCALC, and PINPRW variable-length symmetric key tokens that can be used with the
AES algorithm.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_desusecv_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_desusecv/aes_desusecv_vlskt"/> shows the
format of the DESUSECV variable-length symmetric key tokens that can be used with the AES
algorithm.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_dkygenky_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_dkygenky"/> shows the format of the
DKYGENKY variable-length symmetric key tokens that can be used with the AES algorithm.</p>
<p><xref href="wskc_aes_secmsg_vlskt.dita#l0wskc02_aes_secmsg/aes_secmsg_vlskt"/> shows the format
of the SECMSG variable-length symmetric key tokens that can be used with the AES algorithm.</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>