<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN"
 "ibm-task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<task id="oc_mig" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Migrating <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword> version
2 tokens to version 3</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Migrating to version 3</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Migrating <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 2 tokens to version 3 on
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle><?Pub
Caret -1?>
</titlealts>
<abstract><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pkcs11"/> token objects are
persistent in the token. <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/>
stores token objects in the token directory,
<filepath>/var/lib/opencryptoki/ccatok/TOK_OBJ</filepath>, for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/>.<shortdesc>Private <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> token objects that have been saved in
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 2 format must be
migrated before they can be used with <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 3.</shortdesc></abstract>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>migration, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/>
<indexterm>migration, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"
/></indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<prereq>Public <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> token objects
are not encrypted and no migration is required.<note>Throughout this section, <term>token
object</term> is used to mean a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pkcs11"/>
object, like a key, and the term <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/> is used to denote the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> plug-in for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>.</note></prereq>
<context> <p>In <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 2, private
token objects are encrypted and decrypted with a secure key in the cryptographic adapter. In version
3, this encryption and decryption is done with a clear key using cryptographic software functions.
Therefore, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 3 cannot
decrypt a version 2 private token object.</p> <p>Migration decrypts the private key objects by using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
verb and the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> key
stored in MK_USER. The objects are then re-encrypted using the cryptographic software functions
according to <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 3. The key bits
that are stored in MK_USER are subsequently used as a clear key.</p> <p>You can find more detailed information about token migration in the documentation of the
appropriate  <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> RPM.</p> </context>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>Back up the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/>
directory.</cmd>
<info> For most <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> distributions,
this directory is <filepath>/var/lib/opencryptoki/ccatok</filepath>.</info>
<info>The content of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/>
directory includes the following items:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>MK_USER</dt>
<dd>The TDES key used for internal on-disk encryption, encrypted under the user's PIN by software
routines.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>MK_SO</dt>
<dd>The TDES key used for internal on-disk encryption, encrypted under the SO's PIN by software
routines. This is the same key as in MK_USER, but with a different encrytion.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>NKTOK.DAT</dt>
<dd>Token information.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>TOK_OBJ</dt>
<dd>The directory in which token objects are stored.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>TOK_OBJ/OBJ.IDX</dt>
<dd>A list of current token objects.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></info>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Upgrade to <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/>
version 3 or install version 3.</cmd>
<info>
<ul>
<li>Upgrade to <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 3.<p>
For most <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> distributions,
upgrading from version 2 to version 3 preserves the contents of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> token directory.</p></li>
<li>Install <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> version 3.<p>For
most <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> distributions, installing
version 3 removes the contents of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> token directory. Restore your backup of
this directory to migrate the version 2 tokens.</p></li>
</ul>
</info>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Ensure that no <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> processes are
running.</cmd>
<substeps>
<substep>
<cmd>Stop all applications that use <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"
/>.</cmd>
</substep>
<substep>
<cmd>Find out whether the <codeph>pkcsslotd</codeph> daemon is running by issuing the following
command:</cmd>
<info><screen>$ ps awx |grep pkcsslotd</screen>If the daemon is running, the command output shows a
process for <codeph>pkcsslotd</codeph>.</info>
</substep>
<substep>
<cmd>If applicable, stop the daemon by issuing a command of this form:</cmd>
<info>
<screen>$ killall pkcsslotd</screen>
</info>
</substep>
</substeps>
</step>
<step>
<cmd>Run <cmdname>pkcscca</cmdname>.</cmd>
<stepxmp>
<note othertype="Example" type="other">
<screen>$ pkcscca -m v2objectsv3 -v</screen>
</note>
</stepxmp>
<stepxmp>The <option>-v</option> option prints information about which objects did and did not get
migrated.</stepxmp>
<info>This command migrates <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> token
objects in the default <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> token
directory, <filepath>/var/lib/opencryptoki/ccatok</filepath>.<p>If your distribution uses a
different token directory, use the <option>-d</option> option to specify this directory.</p></info>
<stepxmp>
<note othertype="Example" type="other">
<screen>$ pkcscca -m v2objectsv3 -v -d /home/ccaadmin/ccatok</screen>
</note>
</stepxmp>
</step>
</steps>
<result>The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword> private
token objects are encrypted according to <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword> version
3 and ready to be accessed.</result>
<postreq>If <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword> version
3 cannot find the newly migrated <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword> private
token objects, reboot or remove the shared memory file, <?linebreak pdf?><filepath>/dev/shm/var.lib.opencryptoki.ccatok</filepath>. <note
type="attention">Ensure that no <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword> processes
are running when removing the shared memory.</note></postreq>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000007650?>
