<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference id="l0wskc02_aes_dkygenky" rev="shr2" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>AES DKYGENKY variable-length symmetric key token</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>AES DKYGENKY</navtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): AES DKYGENKY variable-length symmetric
key token</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>View a table showing the format of the DKYGENKY variable-length
symmetric key-token. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>key token<indexterm>AES DKYGENKY variable-length
symmetric</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>DKYGENKY variable-length
symmetric</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<table id="aes_dkygenky_vlskt" pgwide="1"><title>AES DKYGENKY variable-length
symmetric key-token, version <ph>X'05'</ph></title><desc> <p
outputclass="summary">AES DKYGENKY variable-length symmetric key-token,
version <ph>X'05'</ph></p> </desc>
<tgroup cols="5"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="20*"/><colspec colname="col3" colwidth="25*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="45*"/><colspec colname="col5"
colwidth="75*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1">
<p>Header</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>000</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Token identifier:</p><dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>Internal key-token (encrypted key is wrapped with the master key
or there is no payload).</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>External key-token (encrypted payload is wrapped with a transport
key or there is no payload). A transport key can be a key-encrypting
key or an RSA public-key.</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>001</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Reserved, binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>002</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Length in bytes of the overall
token structure:</p> <p>46 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>) + (2 *  <i>kmf</i>)
+  <i>kl</i>  +  <i>iead</i> +  <i>uad</i>  + ((<i>pl</i> + 7) / 8)</p><dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Key token</dthd><ddhd>Minimum token length</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>Skeleton</dt>
<dd>46 + (2 * 2) + (2 * 3) + 0 + 0 + 0 + 0 = 56</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Encrypted V1 payload</dt>
<dd>46 + (2 * 2) + (2 * 3) + 0 + 0 + 0 + ((640 + 7) / 8) = 136</dd>
</dlentry></dl><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Key token</dthd><ddhd>Maximum token length</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>External*</dt>
<dd>46 + (2 * 6) + (2 * 3) + 64 + 0 + 255 + ((4096 + 7) / 8) = 895</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Internal</dt>
<dd>46 + (2 * 6) + (2 * 3) + 64 + 0 + 255 + ((640 + 7) / 8) = 463</dd>
</dlentry></dl> <p>*This assumes a PKOAEP2 key-wrapping method using
a 4096-bit RSA transport key.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>004</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Token version number (identifies
the format of this key token):</p> <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'05'</dt>
<dd>Version 5 format of the key token (variable-length symmetric key-token)</dd>
</dlentry></dl> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>005</p></entry>
<entry><p>03</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Reserved, binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1">
<p>End of header</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1">
<p>Wrapping information section (all data related to wrapping the key)</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>008</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key material state:</p> <dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>No key is present. This is called a skeleton key-token. The key
token is external or internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>Key is wrapped with a transport key. When the encrypted section
key-wrapping method is AESKW (value at offset 26 is X'02'), the transport
key is an AES key-encrypting key. When it is PKOAEP2 (value at offset
26 is X'03'), the transport key is an RSA public-key. The key token
is external.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>Key is wrapped with the AES master-key. The encrypted section
key-wrapping method is AESKW. The key token is internal.</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>009</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key verification pattern (KVP)
type:</p> <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>No KVP (no key present or key is wrapped with an RSA public-key).
The key token is external or internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>AESMK (8 leftmost bytes of SHA-256 hash: X'01 &ac;ˆ&yen; clear
AES MK). The key token is internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>KEK (8 leftmost bytes of SHA-256 hash: X'01 &ac;ˆ&yen; clear KEK).
The key token is external.</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>010</p></entry>
<entry><p>16</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>KVP (value depends on value
of key material state, that is, the value at offset 8):</p><dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value at offset 8</dthd><ddhd>Value of KVP</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>The key-material state is no key present. The field should be
filled with binary zeros. The key token is external or internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>The key material state is the key is wrapped with a transport
key. The value of the KVP depends on the value of the encrypted section
key-wrapping method:<ul>
<li>When the key-wrapping method is AESKW (value at offset 26 is X'02'),
the field contains the KVP of the key-encrypting key used to wrap
the key. The 8-byte KEK KVP is left-aligned in the field and padded
on the right low-order bytes with binary zeros.</li>
<li>When the key-wrapping method is PKOAEP2 (value at offset 26 is
X'03'), the value should be filled with binary zeros. The encoded
message, which contains the key, is wrapped with an RSA public-key.</li>
</ul><p>The key token is external.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>The key-material state is the key is wrapped with the AES master-key.
The field contains the MKVP of the AES master-key used to wrap the
key. The 8-byte MKVP is left-aligned in the field and padded on the
right low-order bytes with binary zeros. The key token is internal.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>026</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Encrypted section key-wrapping
method (how data in the encrypted section is protected):</p><dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>No key-wrapping method (no key present or key is clear). The key
token is external or internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>AESKW (ANS X9.102). The key token is external with a key wrapped
by an AES key-encrypting key, or the key token is internal with a
key wrapped by the AES master-key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>PKOAEP2. Message <i>M</i>, which contains the key, is encoded
using the RSAES-OAEP scheme of the           RSA PKCS #1 v2.1 standard.
The encoded message (<i>EM</i>) is produced using the given      
    hash algorithm by encoding message <i>M</i> using the Bellare
and Rogaway Optimal           Asymmetric Encryption Padding (OAEP)
method for encoding messages. For PKAOEP2, <i>M</i>           is defined
as follows:<p><i>M</i> = [32 bytes: <i>hAD</i>] &ac;ˆ&yen; [2 bytes:
bit length of the            clear key] &ac;ˆ&yen; [clear key]</p> 
         <p>where <i>hAD</i> is the message digest of the associated
data, and            is calculated using the SHA-256 algorithm on
the data starting at offset 30 for the            length in bytes
of all the associated data for the key token (length value at offset
           32).</p>           <p><i>EM</i> is wrapped with an RSA
public-key. The key token is external.</p></dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>027</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Hash algorithm used for wrapping
key or encoding message. Meaning depends on whether the encrypted
section key-wrapping method (value at offset 26) is no key-wrapping
method, AESKW, or PKOAEP2:</p><p><keyword>No key-wrapping method (value
at offset 26 is X'00')</keyword></p><p>Hash algorithm used for wrapping
key when encrypted section key-wrapping method is no key-wrapping
method:</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>No hash (no key present)</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined. The
key token is external or internal.</p><p><keyword>AESKW key-wrapping
method (value at offset 26 is X'02')</keyword></p><p>Hash algorithm
used for wrapping key when encrypted section key-wrapping method is
AESKW. The         value indicates the algorithm used to calculate
the message digest of         the associated data. The message digest
is included in the wrapped         payload and is calculated starting
at offset 30 for the length in bytes of all the         associated
data for the key token (length value at offset 32).</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>SHA-256</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined. The
key token is external or internal.</p><p><keyword>PKOAEP2 key-wrapping
method (value at offset 26 is X'03')</keyword></p><p>Hash algorithm
used for encoding message when encrypted section key-wrapping method
is PKOAEP2. The value indicates the given hash algorithm used for
encoding message <i>M</i> using the RSAES-OAEP scheme of the RSA PKCS
#1 v2.1 standard.</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>SHA-1</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>SHA-256</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'04'</dt>
<dd>SHA-384</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'08'</dt>
<dd>SHA-512</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined. The
key token is external.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>028</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Payload format version (identifies
format of the payload):</p> <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>V1 payload (V1PYLD). The payload format depends on the encrypted
section key-wrapping method (value at offset 26):<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value at offset 26</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>There is no key-wrapping method. When no key is present, there
is no payload. The key token is external or internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>The key-wrapping method is AESKW and the payload is fixed length
based on the maximum possible key size of the algorithm for the key.
The key is padded with random data to the size of the largest key
for that algorithm. This helps to deter attacks on keys known to be
weaker. The key length cannot be inferred by the size of the payload.
The key token is external or internal.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>The key-wrapping method is PKOAEP2 and the payload length is equal
to the modulus size in bits of the RSA transport key used to wrap
the encoded message. The key token is external. When the external
key is exported, the internal target key will have the same V1 payload
format.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>029</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Reserved, binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>End of wrapping
information section</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>AESKW or PKOAEP2
components: (1) associated data section and (2) optional wrapped AESKW
payload or wrapped PKOAEP2 payload (no payload if no key present)</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>Associated data
section</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>030</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Associated data section version:</p><dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>Version 1 format of associated data</dd>
</dlentry></dl> </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>031</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Reserved, binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>032</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Length in bytes of all the
associated data for the key token: 26 - 353.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>034</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Length in bytes of the optional
key label (<i>kl</i>): 0 or 64.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>035</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Length in bytes of the optional
IBM extended associated data (<i>iead</i>): 0.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>036</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Length in bytes of the optional
user-definable associated data (<i>uad</i>): 0 - 255.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>037</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Reserved, binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>038</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Length in <i>bits</i> of the
wrapped payload (<i>pl</i>): 0, 512 - 4096.</p><ul>
<li>For no key-wrapping method (no key present), <i>pl</i> is 0.</li>
<li>For PKOAEP2 encoded payloads, <i>pl</i> is the length in bits
of the modulus size of the RSA key used to wrap the payload. This
can be 512 - 4096.</li>
<li>For an AESKW formatted payload, <i>pl</i> is based on the key
size of the algorithm type and the payload format version:</li>
</ul><ul>
<li><keyword>AES algorithm (value at offset 41 is X'02')</keyword> <p>An
AES key can have a length of 16, 24, or 32 bytes (128, 192, or 256
bits). The following table shows the payload length for a given AES
key size and payload format:<codeblock>                       <b> Bit length of            Bit length of
                        V0 payload (value at     V1 payload (value at
AES key size            offset 28 is X'00')      offset 28 is X'01')</b>
16 bytes (128 bits)     Not applicable           640
24 bytes (192 bits)     Not applicable           640
32 bytes (256 bits)     Not applicable           640</codeblock></p></li>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>040</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Reserved, binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>041</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Algorithm type (algorithm for
which the key can be used):</p><p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>AES</dd>
</dlentry></dl>  </p><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>042</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key type (general class of
the key):</p><p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'0009'</dt>
<dd>DKYGENKY</dd>
</dlentry></dl>  </p><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p><synph id="aes_dkygenky_kuf_layout">044</synph></p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key usage fields count (<i>kuf</i>):
2, 4 - 6. Key-usage field information defines restrictions on the
use of the key.</p> <p>Count is based on type of key to diversify (value at offset
45):<codeblock><b>Value at      Type of key
offset 45     to diversify</b>     <b>kuf count</b>
<b>X'00'</b>         D-ALL            2
<b>X'01'</b>         D-CIPHER         4
<b>X'02'</b>         D-MAC            4 (not DK enabled)
                               5 (DK enabled)
<b>X'03'</b>         D-EXP            6
<b>X'04'</b>         D-IMP            6
<b>X'05'</b>         D-PPROT          5
<b>X'06'</b>         D-PCALC          5
<b>X'07'</b>         D-PPRW           5
<b>X'08'</b>         D-SECMSG         4 
<b>X'09'</b>         D-KDKGKY         15, 27, 39, or 51
</codeblock></p>
<p>Each key-usage field is 2 bytes in length. The value in this field indicates how
many 2-byte key usage fields follow.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>045</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-usage field 1, high-order
byte (type of key to diversify). Defines the type of diversified key
that this diversifying key can generate.</p> <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>Any key type listed below (D-ALL)</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>CIPHER (D-CIPHER)</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>MAC (D-MAC)</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>EXPORTER (D-EXP)</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'04'</dt>
<dd>IMPORTER (D-IMP)</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'05'</dt>
<dd>PINPROT (D-PPROT)</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'06'</dt>
<dd>PINCALC (D-PCALC)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'07'</dt>
<dd>PINPRW (D-PPRW)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'08'</dt>
<dd>SECMSG (D-SECMSG)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'09'</dt>
<dd>KDKGENKY (D-KDKGKY) (Release 5.4 or later)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>046</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3" rev="sh21i1"><p>Key-usage field 1, low-order
byte (user-defined extension control and other special usages):</p>
<dl>
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry rev="sh21i1">
<dt>B'1xxx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Key can be used as the base derivation key (<ph rev="sh21i2">BDK</ph>) in the AES DUKPT key
derivation algorithm. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx 1xxx'</dt>
<dd>Key can only be used in UDXs (UDX-ONLY).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx 0xxx'</dt>
<dd>Key can be used in UDXs and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx x1uu'</dt>
<dd>UDX-defined bit reserved for UDXs (UDX-100).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xu1u'</dt>
<dd>UDX-defined bit reserved for UDXs (UDX-010).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xuu1'</dt>
<dd>UDX-defined bit reserved for UDXs (UDX-001).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>047</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-usage field 2, high-order
byte (related generated key-usage field level of control):</p><dl
compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'1xxx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>The key usage fields of the key to be generated must be equal
(KUF-MBE) to the related generated key usage fields that start with
key usage field 3 below.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>B'0xxx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>The key usage fields of the key to be generated must be permissible
(KUF-MBP) based on the related generated key usage fields that start
with key usage field 3 below. A key to be diversified is not permitted
to have a higher level of usage than the related key usage fields
permit. The key to be diversified is only permitted to have key usage
that is less than or equal to the related key usage fields. One exception
is the UDX-ONLY setting in the generated key usage fields. The UDX-ONLY
setting must  <i>always</i> be equal to the UDX-ONLY setting in the
related key usage fields.</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>Undefined when the value at offset 45 = X'00' (D-ALL).
All unused bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>048</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-usage field 2, low-order
byte (key-derivation sequence level):</p><p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'00'</dt>
<dd>Use this diversifying key to generate a Level 0 diversified key
(DKYL0). The type of key to diversify (value at offset 45) determines
the key type of the generated key. Level 0 is a completed key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>Use this diversifying key to generate a Level 1 diversified key
(DKYL1).</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>Use this diversifying key to generate a Level 2 diversified key
(DKYL2).</dd>
</dlentry></dl>  </p><p>All unused values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>049, for <i>kuf</i>  > 3</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional key-usage field 3
(related generated key usage fields). Controls the key usage field
1 values of the diversified key. Meaning depends on type of key to
diversify (value at offset 45):</p> <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value at offset 45</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES CIPHER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES MAC key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES EXPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'04'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES IMPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'05'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES PINPROT key .</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'06'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES PINCALC key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'07'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 1 of AES PINPRW key.</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>051, for  <i>kuf</i>  > 3</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional key-usage field 4
(related generated key usage fields). Controls the key usage field
2 values of the diversified key. Meaning depends on type of key to
diversify (value at offset 45):</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value at offset 45</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'01'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES CIPHER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES MAC key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES EXPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'04'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES IMPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'05'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES PINPROT key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'06'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES PINCALC key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'07'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 2 of AES PINPRW key.</dd>
</dlentry></dl> <p>All unused bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>053, for  <i>kuf</i>  > 4</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional key-usage field 5
(related generated key usage fields). Controls the key usage field
3 values of the diversified key. Meaning depends on type of key to
diversify (value at offset 45):</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value at offset 45</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'02'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 3 of AES MAC key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 3 of AES EXPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'04'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 3 of AES IMPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'05'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 3 of AES PINPROT key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'06'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 3 of AES PINCALC key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'07'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 3 of AES PINPRW key.</dd>
</dlentry></dl> <p>All unused bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>055, for  <i>kuf</i>  > 5</p></entry>
<entry><p>02</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional key-usage field 6
(related generated key usage fields). Controls the key usage field
4 values of the diversified key. Meaning depends on type of key to
diversify (value at offset 45):</p> <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value at offset 45</dthd><ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'03'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 4 of AES EXPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X'04'</dt>
<dd>Same as key-usage field 4 of AES IMPORTER key.</dd>
</dlentry></dl><p>All unused bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>045 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key management fields count
(<i>kmf</i>): 3. Key-management field information describes how the
data is to be managed or helps with management of the key material. </p> <p>Each
key-management field is 2 bytes in length. The value in this field
indicates how many 2-byte key management fields follow.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>046 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-management field 1, high-order
byte (symmetric-key export control).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>047 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-management field 1, low-order
byte (export control by algorithm).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>048 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-management field 2, high-order
byte (key completeness).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>049 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-management field 2, low-order
byte (security history).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>050 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-management field 3, high-order
byte (pedigree original).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>051 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p>01</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Key-management field 3, low-order
byte (pedigree current).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>052 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>)</p></entry>
<entry><p><i>kl</i></p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional key label.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>052 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>) +   <i>kl</i></p></entry>
<entry><p><i>iead</i></p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional IBM extended associated
data (not used).</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><p>052 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>) +  <i>kl</i> +  <i>iead</i></p></entry>
<entry><p><i>uad</i></p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Optional user-defined associated
data.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>End of associated
data section</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>Optional wrapped
AESKW formatted payload or wrapped PKOAEP2 encoded payload (no payload
if no key present)</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="3"><p>052 + (2 * <i>kuf</i>) +  <i>kl</i> +  <i>iead</i> +
 <i>uad</i></p></entry>
<entry morerows="3"><p>(<i>pl</i> + 7) / 8</p></entry>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col3"><p>Contents of payload (<i>pl</i> is
in <i>bits</i>) depending on the encrypted section key-wrapping method
(value at offset 26):</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="bottom"><b>Value at offset 26</b></entry>
<entry valign="bottom"><b>Encrypted section key-wrapping method</b></entry>
<entry valign="bottom"><b>Meaning</b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>X'02'</b></entry>
<entry><p>AESKW</p></entry>
<entry><p>An encrypted payload which the Segment 2 code creates by
wrapping the unencrypted AESKW formatted payload. The payload is made
up of the integrity check value, pad length, length of hash options
and hash, hash options, hash of the associated data, key material,
and padding. The key token is internal.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>X'03'</b></entry>
<entry><p>PKOAEP2</p></entry>
<entry><p>An encrypted PKOAEP2 encoded payload created using the RSAES-OAEP
scheme of the PKCS #1 v2.1 standard. The message  <i>M</i> is encoded
for a given hash algorithm using the Bellare and Rogaway Optimal Asymmetric
Encryption Padding (OAEP) method for encoding messages. For PKAOEP2,
 <i>M</i> is defined as follows:</p><p> <i>M</i> =    [32 bytes: <i>hAD</i>] &ac;ˆ&yen;
[2 bytes: bit length of the clear key] &ac;ˆ&yen;    [clear key]</p> <p>where <i>hAD</i> is
the message digest of the associated data, and is         calculated
using the SHA-256 algorithm starting at offset 30 for the length in
bytes of all         the associated data for the key token (length
value at offset 32). The encoded message is         wrapped with an
RSA public-key according to the standard. The key token is external.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>End of optional
wrapped AESKW formatted payload or wrapped PKOAEP2 encoded payload</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><p>End of AESKW or
PKOAEP2 components</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col5" namest="col1" valign="top"><note>All numbers
are in big endian format.</note></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000029084?>
