<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_retcode">
<title>Return codes</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Return codes</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Return codes</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>A return code provides a general indication of the results of verb
processing. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>return code</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>A return code can have the values shown in <xref href="#l0wskc02_retcode/l0wskc02_rtcds2"/>.</p></section>
<table id="l0wskc02_rtcds2">
<title>Return code values</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Return
code values</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="21*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry>Hex value</entry>
<entry>Decimal value</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>00</entry>
<entry>00</entry>
<entry>This return code indicates a normal completion
of verb processing. To provide additional information, there are also
nonzero reason codes associated with this return code.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>04</entry>
<entry>04</entry>
<entry>This return code is a warning indicating the verb
completed processing; however, an unusual event occurred. The event
is most likely related to a problem created by the user or is a normal
occurrence based on the data supplied to the verb.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>08</entry>
<entry>08</entry>
<entry>This return code indicates the verb prematurely
stopped processing. Generally, the application programmer needs to
investigate the significance of the associated reason code to determine
the origin of the problem. In some cases, due to transient conditions,
retrying the verb might produce different results.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>0C</entry>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>This return code indicates the verb prematurely
stopped processing. Either a coprocessor is not available or a processing
error occurred. The reason is most likely related to a problem in
the set up of the hardware or in the configuration of the software.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>10</entry>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>This return code indicates the verb prematurely
stopped processing. A processing error occurred. If these errors persist,
a repair of the coprocessor hardware or a correction to the coprocessor
software might be required.</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><section>
<note>If an application receives a return code greater than
4, an error occurred. In the case of an error, assume any output variables
other than the return code and reason code are not valid, <ph>unless
otherwise indicated in the description of verb processing.</ph></note></section>
</refbody></reference>
