<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN"
 "ibm-task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<task id="l0wskc02_install_rpm" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Download and install the <ph rev="sh16a">RPM or DEB</ph> file</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Download and install the RPM or DEB file</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Download and install the RPM or DEB
file</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc rev="sh16a">RPM is the installation package format for Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL)
and SUSE Linux Enterprise Server (SLES) distributions. DEB is the package format for the Ubuntu
distribution. The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> RPM or DEB
packages contain files, samples, and groups.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
RPM<indexterm>installation</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
DEB<indexterm>installation</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DEB installation package</indexterm>
<indexterm>RPM installation package</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<taskbody>
<context><?Pub Caret 109?>
<p>To download the RPM or DEB package, complete these steps:</p></context>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>Point your Web browser at this location: </cmd>
<info>
<codeblock><xref conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#links/cardsite"/></codeblock>
</info>
</step>
<step rev="sh20i2">
<cmd>Click the appropriate link for your cryptographic coprocessor / HSM from the
<synph><kwd>Products</kwd></synph> pull down choice.</cmd>
</step>
<step rev="sh20i2">
<cmd>Click <synph><kwd>Download software</kwd></synph> from the selected CEX*S Overview page.</cmd>
</step>
<step rev="sh20i2">
<cmd>On the appearing CEX*S - Software page, click the <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/security/cryptocards/pciecc4/lonzsoftware" format="html" scope="external"
>software-package selection page</xref> link.</cmd>
</step>
<step rev="sh20i2">
<cmd>Navigate to the desired RPM or DEB package by opening the <b>+</b> sign besides the appropriate
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> release. From here, you can access
the following parts:</cmd>
<info>
<ul>
<li>the RPM or DEB installation file that installs the host code</li>
<li>the README file for the RPM or DEB</li>
<li>the Release Notes</li>
<li>the license information.</li>
</ul>
</info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002205?>
