<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_xpkgrequired">
<title>Required commands</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkg"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkg"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpkg"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkg"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody><section>
<ul>
<li>This verb requires the <cmdname>PKA Key Generate</cmdname> command (offset X'0103') to be
enabled in the active role.</li>
<li>With the <synph><kwd>CLONE</kwd></synph> rule-array keyword, enable the <cmdname>PKA Key
Generate - Clone</cmdname> command (offset X'0204').</li>
<li>With the <synph><kwd>CLEAR</kwd></synph> rule-array keyword, enable the <cmdname>PKA Key
Generate - Clear RSA Key</cmdname> command (offset X'0205') in the hardware.</li>
<li>To generate ECC keys with the <synph><kwd>CLEAR</kwd></synph> rule-array keyword, this verb
requires the <cmdname>PKA Key Generate - Clear ECC keys</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0326'</ph>)
to be enabled in the active role.</li>
<li rev="sh20i1">To generate CRYSTALS-Dilithium keys with the <synph><kwd>CLEAR</kwd></synph>
rule-array keyword, this verb requires the <cmdname>PKA Key Generate - Clear CRYSTALS Dilithium
keys</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'027F'</ph>) to be enabled in the active role.</li>
<li>To generate keys based on the value supplied in the <synph><var>regeneration_data</var></synph> variable,
you must enable one of these commands:
<ul>
<li>When not using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/retain"/> keyword,
enable the <cmdname>PKA Key Generate - Permit Regeneration Data</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'027D'</ph>).</li>
<li>When using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/retain"/> keyword,
enable the <cmdname>PKA Key Generate - Permit Regeneration Data Retain</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'027E'</ph>).</li>
</ul></li>
<li>To disallow the wrapping of a key with a weaker key-encrypting key, enable the <cmdname
rev="shr2">Prohibit weak wrapping - Transport keys</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0328'</ph>) in
the active role. This command affects multiple verbs. See <xref href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"
/>.</li>
<li>To receive a warning when wrapping a key with a weaker key-encrypting key, enable the <cmdname
rev="shr2">Warn when weak wrap - Transport keys</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'032C'</ph>) in the
active role. The <cmdname rev="shr2">Prohibit weak wrapping - Transport keys</cmdname> command
(offset <ph>X'0328'</ph>) overrides this command.</li>
</ul></section>
</refbody></reference>
