<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference id="ffxt_parameters" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh21i1">
<title>Parameters</title>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ffxt"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ffxt_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ffxt"
/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>,
<synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>, and
<synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"
/>. </p>
</section>
<section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count </pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_ak1_xfb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The number of keywords you supplied in the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter. The value
must be 5.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array </pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_jdt_q3b_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> contains keywords that provide control information to the
callable service. The keywords must be in contiguous storage with each of the keywords
left-justified in its own 8-byte location and padded on the right with blanks.</p>
<table frame="all" pgwide="0" id="table_kdt_q3b_x4b"><title>Rule array keywords for Format
Preserving Algorithms Translate control information</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Rule array keywords for Format Preserving Algorithms Translate control
information. This table contains two columns: Keyword and Meaning, and it contains rows for Input
ciphertext format (one, required), Output ciphertext format (one, required), Encryption Algorithm
process (one, required), Input alphabet (one, required), and Output alphabet (one, required).</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="166*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="302*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Input ciphertext format (one, required)</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ICFF1</entry>
<entry>Specifies the input ciphertext was encrypted using FPE FF1 algorithm (original FFX).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ICFF2</entry>
<entry>Specifies the input ciphertext was encrypted using FPE FF2 algorithm (original VAES).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ICFF2.1</entry>
<entry>Specifies the input ciphertext was encrypted using FPE FF2.1 algorithm (new version of
VAES).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="left" valign="top" namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Output ciphertext format (one,
required)</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>OCFF1</entry>
<entry>Specifies the data is to be encrypted using FPE FF1 algorithm (original FFX).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>OCFF2</entry>
<entry>Specifies the data is to be encrypted using FPE FF2 algorithm (original VAES).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>OCFF2.1</entry>
<entry>Specifies the data is to be encrypted using FPE FF2.1 algorithm (new version of
VAES).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Encryption Algorithm process (one,
required)</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES</entry>
<entry>Speciﬁes use of the AES ciphering algorithm.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Input alphabet (one, required)</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>I-BASE10</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the input data will be only BASE-10 ASCII represented in binary form. Valid
ASCII values are '0' through '9' (X'30' through X'39'). This applies to the tweak as well as the
alphabet.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>I-CUSTOM</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the caller can provide the alphabet for the input data as well as the tweak.
The tweak alphabet is optional. The input data, tweak, and alphabets are ASCII character
sets.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Output alphabet (one, required)</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>O-BASE10</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the output data will be only BASE-10 ASCII represented in binary form. Valid
ASCII values are '0' through '9' (X'30' through X'39'). This applies to the tweak as well as the
alphabet.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>O-CUSTOM</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the caller can provide the alphabet for the output data as well as the tweak.
The tweak alphabet is optional. The output data, tweak, and alphabets are ASCII character
sets.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_xng_dnb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>input_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If the
<parmname>input_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise, the
value must be between the actual length of the token and 725.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_yng_dnb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The identifier of the key to decrypt the input cipher text. The key identifier is an operational
token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. The key must be an AES CIPHER key
with key attributes DECRYPT and the desired enciphering mode of FF1, FF2, or FF2.1. </p>
<p>When the ICFF1 keyword is specified, this key can be either a 128-bit or a 256-bit key. When the
ICFF2 or ICFF2.1 keyword is specified, this key must be a 128-bit key.</p>
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key. </p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_zng_dnb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>output_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If the
<parmname>output_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise, the
value must be between the actual length of the token and 725.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_a4g_dnb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The identifier of the key to encrypt the plain text. The key identifier is an operational token
or the key label of an operational token in key storage. The key must be an AES CIPHER key with key
attributes ENCRYPT and the desired enciphering mode of FF1, FF2, or FF2.1. </p>
<p>When the OCFF1 keyword is specified, this key can be either a 128-bit or a 256-bit key. When the
OCFF2 or OCFF2.1 keyword is specified, this key must be a 128-bit key.</p>
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_tweak_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_o1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>input_tweak</parmname> parameter.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the ICFF1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value can be between 0 and 512 inclusive.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the ICFF2 or ICFF2.1 keyword</dt>
<dd>Minimum can be 0 and the maximum must satisfy this formula depending on the
<parmname>input_tweak_alphabet_length</parmname>
value:<codeblock>(input_tweak _length x lg2(<i>input_tweak_alphabet_length</i>)) &lt;= (15 – 2) x 8</codeblock>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_tweak</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_p1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The data to be used as the tweak value in the input decryption calculations. When the
<parmname>input_tweak_length</parmname> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_tweak_alphabet_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_q1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>input_tweak_alphabet</parmname> parameter. The
value must be zero when the I-BASE10 keyword is specified.</p>
<p>When the I-CUSTOM keyword is specified:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the ICFF1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value must be 256. </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the ICFF2 or ICFF2.1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value must be between 8 and 256 inclusive.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_tweak_alphabet</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_r1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The tweak alphabet data to be used in the input decryption calculations. When the
<parmname>input_tweak_alphabet_length</parmname> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_alphabet_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_s1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>input_alphabet</parmname> parameter. The value
must be zero when the I-BASE10 keyword is specified. Otherwise, the value may be zero or between 8
and 256 inclusive.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_alphabet</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_t1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The alphabet data to be used in the input decryption calculations. When the
<parmname>input_alphabet_length</parmname> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_tweak_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_u1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>output_tweak</parmname> parameter.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the OCFF1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value can be between 0 and 512 inclusive.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the OCFF2 or OCFF2.1 keyword</dt>
<dd>Minimum can be 0 and the maximum must satisfy this formula depending on the
<parmname>output_tweak_alphabet_length</parmname>
value:<codeblock>(output_tweak _length x lg2(<i>output_tweak_alphabet_length</i>)) &lt;= (15 – 2) x 8</codeblock>
</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_tweak</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_v1k_vpb_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The data to be used as the tweak value in the output encryption calculations. When the
<parmname>output_tweak_length</parmname> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_tweak_alphabet_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_wpt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>output_tweak_alphabet</parmname> parameter. The
value must be zero when the O-BASE10 keyword is specified.</p>
<p>When the O-CUSTOM keyword is specified:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the OCFF1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value must be 256. </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the OCFF2 or OCFF2.1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value must be between 8 and 256 inclusive.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_tweak_alphabet</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_xpt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The tweak alphabet data to be used in the output encryption calculations. When the
<parmname>output_tweak_alphabet_length</parmname> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_alphabet_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_ypt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>output_alphabet</parmname> parameter. The value
must be zero when the O-BASE10 keyword is specified. Otherwise, the value may be zero or between 8
and 256 inclusive.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_alphabet</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_zpt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The alphabet data to be used in the output encryption calculations. When the
<parmname>output_alphabet_length</parmname> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved1_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_aqt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Length in bytes of the <parmname>reserved1</parmname> parameter. The value must be 0.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved1</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_bqt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>This parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved2_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_cqt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Length in bytes of the <parmname>reserved2</parmname> parameter. The value must be 0.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved2</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_dqt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>This parameter is ignored.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>ciphertext_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_eqt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>ciphertext</parmname> parameter. On input, the
value is the length the input ciphertext. On output, the value is the length of the data returned in
the ciphertext parameter.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the OCFF1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The value must be between 2 and 504 inclusive.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>For the OCFF2 or OCFF2.1 keyword</dt>
<dd>The minimum is 2 and the maximum must satisfy this formula depending on the
<parmname>output_alphabet_length</parmname>
value:<codeblock>(<i>ciphertext_length</i> x lg2(<i>output_alphabet_length</i>))/2 &lt;= (15-1) x 8</codeblock>For
example, when the <parmname>output_alphabet_length</parmname> is 10, the maximum
<parmname>ciphertext_length</parmname> is 31.<codeblock>104/log2(10) = 31</codeblock></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>ciphertext</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_fqt_lfc_x4b">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The enciphered text to be processed.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000034406?>
