<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_ktr2required">
<title>Required commands</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr2"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr2"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktr2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr2"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This verb requires the <cmdname>Key Translate2 - Allow use of REFORMAT</cmdname> command (offset
X'014B') to be enabled in the active role if the <synph><kwd>REFORMAT</kwd></synph> re-encipherment
keyword is used.</p></section>
<section><p>Otherwise, the verb requires the <cmdname>Key Translate2</cmdname> command (offset X'0149') to be
enabled.</p></section>
<section><p>To use the translation control keyword <synph><kwd>WRAP-ECB</kwd></synph> or
<synph><kwd>WRAP-ENH</kwd></synph> when the default key-wrapping method setting does not match the
keyword, the <cmdname>Key Translate2 - Allow wrapping override keywords</cmdname> command (offset
X'014A') must be enabled.</p></section>
<section><p>If the <synph><kwd>WRAP-ECB</kwd></synph> translation-control keyword is specified and the key in
the input key token is wrapped by the enhanced wrapping method (<synph><kwd>WRAP-ENH</kwd></synph>),
the verb requires the <cmdname>CKDS Conversion2 - Convert from enhanced to original</cmdname>
command (offset <ph>X'0147'</ph>) to be enabled. An active role with offset X'0149' enabled can also
use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmbtc"/> verb to translate a
key from the enhanced key-wrapping method to the less-secure legacy method.</p></section>
<section><p>The <cmdname>Key Translate2 - Disallow AES ver 5 to ver 4 conversion</cmdname> command (offset
X'032A') prevents <synph><kwd>CIPHER</kwd></synph> keys, which are in variable-length AES key tokens
(newer version X'05') and wrapped under the AES master-key, from being reformatted into
<synph><kwd>DATA</kwd></synph> keys, which are in fixed-length AES key tokens (older version X'04')
and wrapped under the less-secure DES master-key. This command overrides the 
<cmdname>Key Translate2 - Allow use of REFORMAT</cmdname> command (offset X'014B').</p>
<p rev="sh20i1">In releases before Release 5.4 and Release 6.2, triple-length TDES keys are not
supported, thus limiting an outbound TDES key to double length. Beginning with Release 5.4,
Triple-length TDES keys are supported, and an outbound TDES key can be double-length or
triple-length. This makes it possible for data that is encrypted using a triple-length key to be
translated to data encrypted using a weaker double-length key. Such a translation reduces the
security of the data and causes a security exposure, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> normally restricts such a translation from
occurring. To override this restriction, the <cmdname>Cipher Text Translate2 - Allow translate to
weaker DES</cmdname> command (offset X’01C3’) must be enabled in the active role.</p>
<note rev="sh20i1">This command affects multiple verbs. See <xref
href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"/>.</note>
<p rev="sh20i1">Also, beginning with Release 5.4 and Release 6.2, it is possible to do a translation
using an output key that is weaker than the input key. To disallow this, set the command shown in
<xref href="#l0wskc02_ktr2required/kek_algo_table2" format="dita"/>: <table id="kek_algo_table2"
><title>Disallow translation to a weaker key</title><tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="4*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Algorithm of input KEK key</entry>
<entry>Algorithm of output KEK key</entry>
<entry>Command offset (Release 5.4 or later)</entry>
<entry>Command to disallow translation using a weaker key</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>AES</entry>
<entry>DES</entry>
<entry>X'01C5'</entry>
<entry>Disallow translation from AES wrapping to DES wrapping</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES</entry>
<entry>AES</entry>
<entry>X'01C6'</entry>
<entry>Disallow translation from AES wrapping to weaker AES wrapping</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>DES</entry>
<entry>DES</entry>
<entry>X'01C7'</entry>
<entry>Disallow translation from DES wrapping to weaker DES wrapping</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table><note>This command affects multiple verbs. See <xref
href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"/>.</note></p></section>
</refbody></reference>
