<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="rsamee_intext" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16">
<title>RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private key token, 1024-bit
Modulus-Exponent</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>This RSA private key token is supported starting with CEX3C. It is supported as the
external X'02' and the internal X'06' token format.</shortdesc>
<?Pub Caret 85?>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA private token</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>private key token<indexterm>RSA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Modulus-Exponent format</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA 1024-bit modulus-exponent
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA 1024-bit modulus-exponent
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA private Modulus-Exponent key token</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p><xref href="#rsamee_intext/l0wskc02_rsapka2"/> shows the external and internal format.</p>
<table frame="all" id="l0wskc02_rsapka2" pgwide="1">
<title>RSA private key, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent format section (X'02')</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent format</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="15*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (decimal)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>
<p><ph>X'02'</ph>, section identifier, RSA private key, Modulus-Exponent format (RSA-PRIV) for the
external format</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph>, version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>
<p>External format: Length of the RSA private key section <ph>X'016C'</ph> (364 decimal).</p>
<p>Internal format: Length of the RSA private key section <ph>X'0198'</ph> (408 decimal) + rrr + iii
+ xxx.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>
<p>External format: SHA-1 hash value of the private key subsection cleartext, offset 28 to the
section end. This hash value is checked after an enciphered private key is deciphered for use.</p>
<p>Internal format: SHA-1 hash value of the private key subsection cleartext, offset 28 to and
including the modulus at offset 236.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>028</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key format and security: <p>External format:</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00'</ph></dt>
<dd>Unencrypted RSA private key subsection identifier.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'82'</ph></dt>
<dd>Encrypted RSA private key subsection identifier.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>Internal format:</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'02'</ph></dt>
<dd>RSA private key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>029</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><p>External format: Reserved, binary zero.</p>
<p>Internal format:</p> Format of external key from which this token was derived: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'21'</ph></dt>
<dd>External private key was specified in the clear.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'22'</ph></dt>
<dd>External private key was encrypted.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'23'</ph></dt>
<dd>Private key was generated using regeneration data.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'24'</ph></dt>
<dd>Private key was randomly generated.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>030</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash of the optional key-name section and any following optional sections. If there are
no optional sections, this field is set to binary zeros.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh18i1">
<entry>050</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key use flag bits. <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>B'11xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Only key unwrapping (KM-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'10xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Both signature generation and key unwrapping (KEY-MGMT)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'01xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'00xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Only signature generation (SIG-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>Translation control flag bits:</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx1x'</dt>
<dd>Private key translation is allowed (XLATE-OK)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'xxxx xx0x'</ph></dt>
<dd>Private key translation is not allowed (NO-XLATE)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>All other bits reserved, set to binary zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh18i1">
<entry>051</entry>
<entry>009</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">External format: 060 - 235</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>060</entry>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>084</entry>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col2">Start of the optionally-encrypted secure subsection.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>084</entry>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>Random number, confounder. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>108</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Private-key exponent, d. d = e<sup>-1</sup> mod((p-1)(q-1)), and 1 &lt; d &lt; n where e is
the public exponent.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col2">End of the optionally-encrypted subsection; the confounder field
and the private-key exponent field are enciphered for key confidentiality when the key format and
security flags (offset 28) indicate the private key is enciphered. They are enciphered under a
double-length transport key using the ede2 algorithm.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>236</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry rev="sh18i1">Modulus, n. <varname>n</varname> = <varname>pq</varname> where
<varname>p</varname> and <varname>q</varname> are prime and 1 &lt; <varname>n</varname> &lt;
2<sup>1024</sup>. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">External format ends here.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">Internal format: 060 - 235</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>060</entry>
<entry>048</entry>
<entry>Object Protection Key (OPK) encrypted under the Asymmetric Keys Master Key using the ede3
algorithm.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>108</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Private key exponent <synph><var>d</var></synph>, encrypted under the OPK using the ede5
algorithm. <synph><var>d</var></synph> =
<synph><var>e</var></synph><sup>-1</sup>mod((<synph><var>p</var></synph>-1)(<synph><var>q</var></synph>-1)),
and 1 &lt; <synph><var>d</var></synph> &lt; <synph><var>n</var></synph> where
<synph><var>e</var></synph> is the public exponent.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>236</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Modulus, n. n = pq where p and q are prime and 1 &lt; n &lt; 2<sup>1024</sup>. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">Internal format only, until end of table</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>364</entry>
<entry>016</entry>
<entry>Asymmetric-Keys Master Key hash pattern.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>380</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the blinding information subsection cleartext, offset 400 to the end of
the section.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>400</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the random number <synph><var>r</var></synph>, in bytes:
<synph><var>rrr</var></synph></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>402</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the random number <synph><var>r</var></synph><sup>–1</sup>, in bytes:
<synph><var>iii</var></synph></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>404</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the padding field, in bytes: <synph><var>xxx</var></synph></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>406</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zeros.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>408</entry>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col2">Start of the encrypted blinding subsection</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>408</entry>
<entry><synph><var>rrr</var></synph></entry>
<entry>Random number r (used in blinding).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>408 + <synph><var>rrr</var></synph></entry>
<entry><synph><var>iii</var></synph></entry>
<entry>Random number r<sup>–1</sup> (used in blinding).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>408 + <synph><var>rrr</var></synph> + <synph><var>iii</var></synph></entry>
<entry><synph><var>xxx</var></synph></entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph> padding of length <synph><var>xxx</var></synph> bytes such that the length
from the start of the encrypted blinding subsection to the end of the padding field is a multiple of
eight bytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry/>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col2">End of the encrypted blinding subsection; all of the fields
starting with the random number r and ending with the variable length pad field are encrypted under
the OPK using TDES (CBC outer chaining) algorithm.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>