<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Topic//EN"
 "ibm-topic.dtd">
<topic id="rsamef_intext" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16i1">
<title>RSA private key token, 4096-bit Modulus-Exponent</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>RSA private key token, 4096-bit Modulus-Exponent</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private key token, 4096-bit
Modulus-Exponent</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>This RSA private key token is supported on a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> Crypto Express coprocessor (external and
internal <ph>X'09'</ph> token).</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA 4096-bit modulus-exponent
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA 4096-bit modulus-exponent
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA private modulus-exponent key token</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<table frame="all" id="RSAPrivateKeyToken4096-bitModulus-E-112A05A8" pgwide="1">
<title>RSA Private Key Token, 4096-bit Modulus-Exponent</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Table with three columns 
describing the RSA Private Key Token, 4096-bit Modulus-Exponent</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="11*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="10*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="70*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (decimal)</entry>
<entry>Number of bytes</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'09'</ph>, section identifier, RSA private key, modulus-exponent format
(RSAMEVAR).<p>This format is used for a clear or an encrypted RSA private-key in an external
key-token up to a modulus size of 4096 bits.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Section version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the RSA private key section: 132+ddd+nnn+xxx.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the private key subsection cleartext, offset 28 to the section end. This
hash value is checked after an enciphered private key is deciphered for use.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>
<p>External fomat:</p>
<p>Length of the encrypted private key section 8+ddd+xxx.</p>
<p>Internal fomat:</p>
<p>Length in bytes of the optionally encrypted secure subsection, or X'0000' if the subsection is
not encrypted.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>026</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>028</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key format and security flags: <p>External token: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00'</ph></dt>
<dd>Unencrypted RSA private-key subsection identifier</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'82'</ph></dt>
<dd>Encrypted RSA private-key subsection identifier</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p><p>All other values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>029</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>
<p>External format:</p>
<p>Reserved, set to binary zero.</p>
<p>Internal format:</p>
<p>Private key source flag:</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00'</ph></dt>
<dd>Generation method unknown</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>030</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash of the optional key-name section. If there is no key-name section, then 20 bytes
of <ph>X'00'</ph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>050</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<!-- taken from BSM Table 136--><entry>Key-usage and translation control flag byte.
<p>Key usage:</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'11xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Only key unwrapping (KM-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'10xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Both signature generation and key unwrapping (KEY-MGMT)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'01xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'00xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>Translation control:</p>
<dl><dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx1x'</dt>
<dd>Private key translation is allowed (XLATE-OK)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx0x'</dt>
<dd>Private key translation is not allowed (NO-XLATE)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>All other bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>051</entry>
<entry>065</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>116</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Private-key exponent field length, in bytes: <i>ddd</i>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>118</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Private-key modulus field length, in bytes: <i>nnn</i>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>120</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of padding field, in bytes: <i>xxx</i>. <p>Padding of <ph>X'00'</ph>
bytes for a length of <i>xxx</i> bytes such that the length from the start of the confounder at
offset 124 to the end of the padding field is a multiple of 8 bytes.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>122</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved; set to binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3">Start of the (optionally) encrypted subsection; all
of the fields starting with the confounder field and ending with the variable-length pad field are
enciphered for key confidentiality when the key format and security flags (offset 28) indicate that
the private key is enciphered.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>124</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>Confounder. <p>This is an eight-byte random number.</p>
<p>Data encrypted with two-part key-encrypting key.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>132</entry>
<entry><i>ddd</i></entry>
<entry>Private-key exponent, <synph><var>d</var></synph>:
<codeblock><synph><var>d</var></synph> = <synph><var>e</var></synph><sup>-1</sup> mod((<synph><var>p</var></synph> - 1)(<synph><var>q</var></synph> - 1))</codeblock>where
1 &lt; <synph><var>d</var></synph> &lt; <synph><var>n</var></synph>, and <synph><var>e</var></synph>
is the public exponent. <p>The transport key encrypts the private key exponent using the EDE2
algorithm.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>132 + <i>ddd</i></entry>
<entry><i>xxx</i></entry>
<entry>Pad of <ph>X'00'</ph> bytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3">End of the optionally encrypted subsection.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>132 + <i>ddd</i> + <i>xxx</i></entry>
<entry><i>nnn</i></entry>
<entry>Private-key modulus.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000006937?>
