<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_ex" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16i1">
<title>RSA private external key token</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>RSA private external key token</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private external key
token</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read the contained information about the basic structure of  RSA private external key
tokens.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA private token</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>private key token<indexterm>RSA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Modulus-Exponent format</indexterm>
<indexterm>Chinese Remainder Theorem</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA private
external</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA private
external</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA private external key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>private external key token<indexterm>RSA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>external key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Modulus-Exponent format</indexterm>
<indexterm>Chinese Remainder Theorem</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>An RSA private external key token contains the following sections: </p>
<ul>
<li>a required PKA token header starting with the token identifier <ph>X'1E'</ph></li>
<li>a required RSA private key section, one of those shown in  <xref format="dita"
href="wskc_r_ex.dita#l0wskc02_ex/l0wskc02_rsapka" scope="local" type="table"/>, each starting with a
certain section identifiers</li>
<li>a required RSA public key section, starting with the section identifier X'04'</li>
<li>an optional private key name section, starting with the section identifier X'10'.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section>
<p><xref href="#l0wskc02_ex/l0wskc02_rsapka"/> presents the basic record format of an RSA private
external key token. All length fields are in binary. All binary fields (exponents, lengths, and so
on) are stored with the high-order byte first (big-endian format). All binary fields (exponents,
modulus, and so on) in the private sections of tokens are right-aligned and padded with zeros to the
left.</p>
</section>
<table frame="all" id="l0wskc02_rsapka" pgwide="1">
<title>RSA private external key token basic record format</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">RSA private external key token basic record format</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="15*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (decimal)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>Token Header</i></b> (Required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Token identifier. <ph>X'1E'</ph> indicates an external token. The private key is either in
cleartext or enciphered with a transport key-encrypting key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Version, <ph>X'00'</ph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the key token structure.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Ignored. Should be zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="left" nameend="col3" namest="col1" valign="top"><b><i>RSA Private Key Section</i></b>
(Required) <p>See the following sections:</p><ul>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_rsamee_intext.dita#rsamee_intext"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_rsamee_opk.dita#l0wskc02_rsamee_opk"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_rsamef_intext.dita#rsamef_intext"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_rsopk1_intext.dita#rsopk1_intext"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_rsapkt_crt_intext.dita#rsapkt_crt_intext"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_rropk1_intext.dita#rropk1"/></li>
<?Pub Caret 1?>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>RSA Public Key Section</i></b> (Required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'04'</ph>, section identifier, RSA public key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph>, version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length, 12 + xxx.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved field.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>006</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>RSA public key exponent field length in bytes, <q>xxx</q>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Public key modulus length in bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>010</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>RSA public key modulus field length in bytes, which is zero for a private token. <note>In an
RSA private key token, this field should be zero. The RSA private key section contains the
modulus.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>012</entry>
<entry>xxx</entry>
<entry>Public key exponent, e (this is generally a 1, 3, or 64 - 256-byte quantity). e must be odd
and 1 &lt; e &lt; n. (Frequently, the value of e is 2<sup>16</sup> + 1 (= 65,537). <note>You can
import an RSA public key having an exponent valued to two (2). Such a public key can correctly
validate an ISO 9796-1 digital signature. However, the current product implementation does not
generate an RSA key with a public exponent valued to two (a Rabin key).</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>Private Key Name</i></b> (Optional)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'10'</ph>, section identifier, private key name.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph>, version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length, <ph>X'0044'</ph> (68 decimal).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>064</entry>
<entry>Private key name (in ASCII), left-aligned, padded with space characters (<ph>X'20'</ph>). An
access control system can use the private key name to verify the calling application is entitled to
use the key. <ph rev="sh18i1">When generating an RSA <term>retained private key</term>, the name
supplied in this part of the skeleton key-token is subsequently used in the coprocessor to locate
the retained key.</ph></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000007860?>
