<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_chp6procrul" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Processing rules</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Processing rules</navtitle><?Pub Caret 1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Processing rules</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can use different types of processing rules
for block chaining.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>block chaining</indexterm><indexterm>ANSI X9.23 processing
rule</indexterm><indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>ANS X9.23</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>CBC</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CBC processing rule</indexterm><indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>CUSP</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>ECB</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>IPS</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>processing rule<indexterm>PKCS-PAD</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output chaining vector (OCV)<indexterm>description</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>record chaining</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p><xref href="wskc_c_apxcipm.dita#l0wskc02_apxcipm"></xref> describes
the cipher processing rules in detail.</p>
<p>CCA handles chaining for each block of data, from the first block
until the last complete block of data in each <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"></keyword> or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsad2"></keyword> call.
There are different types of <i>processing rules</i> you can choose
for block chaining:  <dl><dlentry>
<dt>ANSI X9.23</dt>
<dd>Data is not necessarily in exact multiples of the block size.
This processing rule pads the plaintext so the ciphertext produced
is in exact multiples of the block size.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Cipher block chaining (CBC)</dt>
<dd>Data must be an exact multiple of the block size, and output will
have the same length.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Cryptographic Unit Support Program (CUSP)</dt>
<dd>CBC mode (cipher block chaining) that is compatible with <tm
tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm>&rsquo;s CUSP and PCF products.
The data need not be in exact multiples of the block size. The ciphertext
is the same length as the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Electronic Code Book (ECB)</dt>
<dd>The data length must be a multiple of the block size. See <xref
href="wskc_c_ecb_mode.dita#l0wskc01_ecb_mode"></xref>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Information Protection System (IPS)</dt>
<dd>CBC mode that is compatible with <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm>&rsquo;s
IPS product. The data need not be in exact multiples of the block
size. The ciphertext is the same length as the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>PKCS-PAD</dt>
<dd>The data is padded on the right with between one and 16 bytes
of pad characters, making ciphertext a multiple of the block size.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>
<p>The resulting chaining value (except for ECB mode), after an <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"></keyword> or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsad2"></keyword> call,
is known as an <i>output chaining vector (OCV)</i>. When there are
multiple cipher requests, the application can pass the OCV from the
previous <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"></keyword> or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsad2"></keyword> call,
as the input chaining vector (ICV) in the next <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"></keyword> or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsad2"></keyword> call.
This produces chaining between successive calls, which is known as <i>record
chaining</i>. CCA provides the ICV selection keyword CONTINUE in the <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameter
used to select record chaining with the CBC processing rule.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000004183?>
