<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="trcsfb4-gen215_parameters" xml:lang="en-us" rev="hw20i1">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34b"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameter definitions for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34b"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>TR-34 Bind-Begin (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34b"
/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>input_token_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>input_token parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>crl_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>crl parameter<indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm>
verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_kdh_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_kdh parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>old_cred_kdh_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>old_cred_kdh parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_krd_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_krd parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>private_key_identifier_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>private_key_identifier parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_token_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_token parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>reserved_data_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>reserved_data parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34b"/></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>,
<synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>, and
<synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"
/>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt> rule_array_count </pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The number of keywords you supplied in the <i>rule_array</i> parameter. The value must be 1
- 2.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Character</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> contains keywords that provide control information to
the callable service. The keywords must be 8 bytes of contiguous storage with the keyword
left-justified in its 8-byte location and padded on the right with blanks. <table frame="all"
pgwide="0" id="table_vls_n3m_dlb"><title>Keywords for TR-34 Bind-Begin</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for TR-34 Bind-Begin. This table contains two columns: Keyword and
Meaning, and it contains rows for Requested action (one, required) and Public Key Infrastructure
Usage (one, optional).</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="128*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="268*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Requested action (one,
required).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>BINDCR</entry>
<entry>TR34 BIND token (CTKDH) CREATE service. Creates the token sent by
the KDH to the KRD to accomplish the BIND action in the TR-34 protocol. This binds the KRD to the
KDH for a later key distribution action.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>UNBINDCR</entry>
<entry>TR34 UNBIND token (UBTKDH) CREATE service. Creates the token sent
by the KDH to the KRD to accomplish the UNBIND action in the TR-34 protocol. This frees the KRD from
the currently bound KDH and causes the KRD to remove all keys received while bound to this
KDH.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>REBINDCR</entry>
<entry>TR34 REBIND token (RBTKDH) CREATE service. Creates the token sent
by the KDH to the KRD to accomplish the REBIND action in the TR-34 protocol. This frees the KRD from
the current binding key of the KDH and binds the KRD to a new binding key from the KDH. This also
causes the KRD to remove all keys received while bound to the KDH under the prior binding
key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Public Key Infrastructure Usage
(one, optional).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-CHK</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is
to be validated against the trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This requires that the CA
credentials have been installed using the Trusted Key Entry (TKE) workstation. This is required for
compliance-tagged key token export with TR-34 services. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-NONE</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is
not to be validated against the trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This is suitable if
the certificate has been validated using host-based PKI services.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>input_token</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500
bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_token</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The DER encoded TR-34 token object. When the requested action keyword is BINDCR, the object
is the TR-34 credential token from KRD (the CT-KRD). When the request action keyword is UNBINDCR or
REBINDCR, the object is the TR-34 random number token from the KRD (the RT-KRD).</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>crl_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>crl</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>crl</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The certificate revocation list (CRL) from the certificate authority the is in common with
the KRD for the requested service. The CRL may be in DER or PEM format.<note>The CSNDT34B service is
acting as the KDH so the <i>crl</i> is not expected to validate against the internal PKI of the
adapter.</note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_kdh</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KDH for the requested service. The
certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<p> The meaning is determined by the requested action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>BINDCR and UNBINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter must contain the X.509 certificate which is the TR-34 credential for the KDH (the
CredKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>REBINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter must contain the new X.509 certificate which is the TR-34 credential for the KDH
(the CredKDH-NEW).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><note>This service is acting as the KDH so the <i>cred_kdh</i> is not expected to validate
against the internal PKI of the adapter.</note></p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>old_cred_kdh_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>old_cred_kdh</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.
When the requested action keyword is BINDCR or UNBINDCR, the value must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>old_cred_kdh</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KDH for the requested service. The
certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<p>When the <i>old_cred_kdh_length</i> is zero, this
parameter is ignored.</p><p>The meaning is determined by the requested action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>REBINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter must contain the old X.509 certificate which is the TR-34 credential for the KDH
(the CredKDH-OLD). The identifier and serial number are needed for the creation of the Rebind
Token.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><note>This service is acting as the KDH so the <i>old_cred_kdh</i> is not expected to validate
against the internal PKI of the adapter.</note></p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_krd_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_krd</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_krd</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KRD for the requested service (the
CredKRD). The certificate may be in DER or PEM format. <p>The meaning is determined by the requested
action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>BINDCR</dt>
<dd>On input, this parameter must be an empty buffer of size <i>cred_krd_length</i>. On output, this
parameter will contain the CredKRD extracted from the CT-KRD.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UNBINDCR, REBINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter must contain the CredKRD extracted by a previous BINDCR service.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><note>This service is acting as the KDH so the <i>cred_krd</i> is normally expected to validate
against the internal PKI of the adapter. Use the PKI-NONE keyword to override this
validation,</note></p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <synph><var>private_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter. When the
requested action keyword is BINDCR, the value must be zero. When the keyword is UNBINDCR or
REBINDCR, the value is the length of the key token or label. If the <i>private_key_identifier</i>
contains a label, the value must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be between the actual length of
the token and 3500.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The identifier of the private key used to sign the output token. The key identifier is an
operational RSA secure token or the label of such a token in key storage. When the
<i>private_key_identifier_length</i> is zero, this parameter is ignored. <p>The key usage of the
token must allow digital signature. Retained private keys are not supported in this
service.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>output_token</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.
On input, the value is the size of the buffer to receive the <i>output_token</i>. On output, the
value is the actual size of the data returned in the <i>output_token</i> parameter.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_token</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The generated DER encoded TR-34 token.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>BINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter will contain the TR-34 BIND token (CTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UNBINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter will contain the TR-34 UNBIND token (UBTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>REBINDCR</dt>
<dd>This parameter will contain the TR-34 REBIND token (RBTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is reserved. The value must be zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000037185?>
