<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_usecvv">
<title>How Visa card verification values are used</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>How Visa card verification values are used</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): How Visa card verification values are
used</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The Visa International Service Association (VISA) and MasterCard
International, Incorporated have specified a cryptographic method
to calculate a value that relates to the personal account number (PAN),
the card expiration date, and the service code. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>Visa card-verification value (CVV)</indexterm>
<indexterm>MasterCard card-verification code (CVC)</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The Visa card-verification value (CVV) and the MasterCard card-verification code (CVC) can be
encoded on either track 1 or track 2 of a magnetic striped card or chip card and are used to detect
forged cards. Because most online transactions use track-2, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs generate and verify the CVV<xref
href="#l0wskc02_usecvv/l0wskc02_cvvcvc"/> by the track-2 method.</p><p><fn id="l0wskc02_cvvcvc">The Visa CVV and the MasterCard CVC refer to the same value. CVV is used
here to mean both CVV and CVC.</fn></p>
<p>The Visa <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcsg"/>
<ph>verb</ph> calculates a 1-byte to 5-byte value through the DES-encryption of the PAN, the card
expiration date, and the service code using two data-encrypting keys or two MAC keys. The Visa
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcsv"/>
<ph>verb</ph> calculates the CVV by the same method, compares it to the CVV supplied by the
application (which reads the credit card's magnetic stripe or chip) in the
<synph><var>CVV_value</var></synph>, and issues a return code that indicates whether the card is
authentic.</p>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmckc"/> verb combines two operational DES keys into one operational
TDES key. The verb accepts as input two single-length keys that are
suitable for use with the CVV (card-verification value) algorithm.
The resulting double-length key meets a more recent industry standard
of using TDES to support PIN-based transactions. In addition, the
double-length key is in a format that can be wrapped using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkext31"/> verb.</p>
</conbody></concept>