<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_ptr">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>)</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> <ph>verb</ph> to re-encipher a PIN block from
one PIN-encrypting key to another and, optionally, to change the PIN
block format, such as the pad digit or sequence number.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>personal identification number (PIN)<indexterm>translation
verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>personal identification number (PIN)<indexterm>encrypting
key</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>personal identification number (PIN)<indexterm>block
format</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key<indexterm>PIN-encrypting key</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN-encrypting key</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<note rev="sh21i1">This service has been deprecated. New applications should use <xref
href="wskc_ptr2.dita"/> instead.  See  for more information.</note>
<p>The unique-key-per-transaction key derivation for single and double-length
keys is available for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verb. This support is available
for the <synph><var>input_PIN_encrypting_key_identifier</var></synph> and the <synph><var>output_PIN_encrypting_key_identifier</var></synph> parameters
for both <synph><kwd>REFORMAT</kwd></synph> and  <synph><kwd>TRANSLAT</kwd></synph> process rules. The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keyword
determines which PIN keys are derived keys. </p>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verb can be used for
unique-key-per-transaction key derivation.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES-DUKPT, there is a set of these keywords: ADUKPTIP, ADUKPTOP and ADUKPTBH.
When the user wants to derive key(s) using the DES DUKPT algorithm, then the PIN profile will
contain CKSN data. When the user wants to derive key(s) using the AES-DUKPT algorithm, then the PIN
profile will contain the derived data structure as described in <xref
href="wskc_aes_dukpt.dita#aes_dukpt/adukpt_deriv_data"/>. <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> determines how to parse the PIN profile by
inspecting the rule array keywords:</p>
<ul rev="sh21i1">
<li>When the DES DUKPT algorithm is used, then the PIN profile contains CKSN extension and the 
total length is 48 bytes.</li> 
<li>When AES DUKPT algorithm is used then PIN profile contains Derived Data extension and total
length is 44 bytes containing single derived data block.</li> 
</ul>
<p rev="sh21i1">A user may wish to use AES DUKPT and DES DUKPT in a combination such that the input
and output PIN encrypting keys are derived differently with DUKPT algorithms or a combination of
DUKPT and static.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">To use this verb, specify the following information:</p>
<ul rev="sh21i1">
<li>The mode of operation with keyword: TRANSLAT or REFORMAT.</li>
<li>Optionally, the method of PIN extraction.</li>
<li>Optionally, DUKPT option on input or output with keywords: UKPTIPIN, UKPTOPIN, or UKPTBOTH for
Single-DES method, or DUKPT-IP, DUKPT-OP, or DUKPT-BH for Triple-DES method.</li>
<li>Optionally, AES DUKPT can be specified for input PIN or output PIN encrypting keys, or both,
with keywords ADUKPTIP, ADUKPTOP and ADUKPTBH.</li>
<li>Input and output PIN-block encrypting keys, or the base keys used to derive the PIN-block enciphering
keys.</li>
<li>Input and output PIN profiles, which for DUKPT processing are extended to 48 bytes with a
24-byte current-key serial number (CKSN) extension. The first 24 bytes of the PIN profiles are
ignored when keyword TRANSLAT is specified. See <xref href="wskc_c_pinppp.dita"/>. When AES DUKPT
keywords are specified, then input and output PIN profiles are extended with the derivation data
structure which is 20 bytes of hex data and contains information necessary for AES-DUKPT
derivation.</li>
<li>Input and output PAN data as required by the selected PIN-block formats.</li>
<li>An output PIN-block sequence number. Specify a value of 99999.</li>
</ul>
</section>
<section>
<note>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>
