<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference id="l0wskc02_krl" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkrl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkrl"></keyword>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkrl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkrl"></keyword>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkrl"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkrl"></keyword> verb
creates a key-record-list file containing information about specified
key records in key storage. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkrl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkrl"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkrl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkrl"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkrl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkrl"></keyword>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>environment variable<indexterm>CSUDESDS</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CSUDESDS</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Information listed includes whether record validation
is correct, the type of key, and the date and time the record was
created and last updated.</p></section>
<section><p>Specify the key records to be listed using the key-label variable. To identify multiple key
records, use the wild card (*) in the key label.</p></section>
<section> <note>To list all the labels in key storage, specify the key_label parameter with *, *.*, *.*.*,
and so forth, up to a maximum of seven name tokens (*.*.*.*.*.*.*).</note></section>
<section><p>This verb creates the key-record-list file and returns the name of the file and the length of the
file name to the calling application. This file has a header record, followed by 0 -
<synph><var>n</var></synph> detail records, where <synph><var>n</var></synph> is the number of key
records with matching key-labels. The file is kept in the <codeph>/opt/IBM/<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/keys/deslist</codeph> directory (assuming
the directory name was not changed during installation). These list files are created under the
ownership of the environment of the user that requests the list service. Make sure the files created
kept the same group ID as your installation requires. This can also be achieved by setting the
<term>set-group-id-on-execution</term> bit on in this directory. See the <uicontrol>g+s</uicontrol>
flags in the <synph><kwd>chmod</kwd></synph> command for full details. Not doing this might cause
errors to be returned on key-record-list verbs.</p><?Pub Caret 308?></section>
<section><p>DES key records are stored in the external key-storage
file defined by the CSUDESDS environment variable.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003152?>
