<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_pvrrequired">
<title>Required commands</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpvr"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpvr"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpvr"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This verb requires the following commands to be enabled in the active role: </p>
<table>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Required commands for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/> verb</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Rule-array keyword</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Offset</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Command</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><synph><kwd>IBM-PIN</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ph>X'00AB'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="col3"><cmdname>Encrypted PIN Verify - 3624</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><synph><kwd>GBP-PIN</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ph>X'00AC'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="col3"><cmdname>Encrypted PIN Verify - GBP</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>VISAPVV4</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ph>X'00AD'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="col3"><cmdname>Encrypted PIN Verify - VISA PVV</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><synph><kwd>INBK-PIN</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><ph>X'00AE'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="col3"><cmdname>Encrypted PIN Verify - Interbank</cmdname></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>This verb also requires the <cmdname>UKPT - PIN Verify, PIN Translate</cmdname> command (offset
X'00E1') to be enabled in the active role if you employ UKPT processing.</p>
<note>A role with offset X'00E1' enabled can also use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verb with UKPT processing.</note></section>
<section><p>An enhanced PIN security mode is available for extracting PINs from an  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm"/> 3624 encrypted PIN-block using the
<synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph> PIN-extraction method. This mode limits checking of the PIN to
decimal digits, and a minimum PIN length of four is enforced. No other PIN-block consistency
checking will occur. To activate this mode, enable the <cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname>
command (offset <ph>X'0313'</ph>) in the active role.</p>
<p>Whenever the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Use stored decimalization tables only</cmdname> command
(offset X'0356') is enabled in the active role, the Decimalization_table element of the
<synph><var>data_array</var></synph> value must match one of the PIN decimalization tables that are
in the active state on the coprocessor. Use of this command provides improved security and control
for PIN decimalization tables. The <synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>VISAPVV4</kwd></synph>, and <synph><kwd>INBK-PIN</kwd></synph> PIN calculation methods
do not have a Decimalization_table element and are therefore not affected by this command.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow PIN block format ISO-1</cmdname> access control is
enabled in the domain role, the PIN block format in the <parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname>
parameter must not be ISO-1.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>