<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_kformbfff" rev="sh20i1">
<title>Key form bits, 'fff' and 'FFF'</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Key form bits, <term>fff</term> and <term>FFF</term></navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Key form bits, <term>fff</term> and
<term>FFF</term></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The key form bits of a DES control vector define the length of the key, either single
(‘fff’), double (‘FFF’) or triple (also ‘FFF’). Bits 40 – 42 in the base (first 64 bits) of a
control vector are for a key length of single, double, or triple, while bits 104 – 106 in the
extension (second 64 bits) of a control vector are for a key length of double or triple. Note that
the bits in the extension of a single-length control vector should all be zeros.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key form bits</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>The key form bits of a DES control vector (‘fff’ and ‘FFF’) are shown in the figures provided in
<xref href="wskc_r_cvbbmap.dita"/>.</p>
<p><xref href="#l0wskc02_kformbfff/keyfbits" format="dita"/> defines the meaning of the key form
bits, along with the rule array keywords associated with these values when using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcvg"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktb"/>, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmbtp"/> services.</p>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="keyfbits"><title>Key form bits, 'fff' and
'FFF'</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Key form bits, 'fff' and
'FFF'</p></desc><tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.3*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.7*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="4.0*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>CV bits 40 – 42 (key form bits)</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktb"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbtp"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcvg"/> keyword</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry morerows="2">B'000'</entry>
<entry><b>SINGLE</b>, <b>KEYLN8</b>
</entry>
<entry>Single-length key (only ‘fff’, not ‘FFF’)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>DOUBLE</b><b>, KEYLN16, MIXED</b> (DATA key only)</entry>
<entry>Double-length DATA key. Left and right key halves not guaranteed unique, ignoring parity
bits. <p>Requires a Version X’01’ fixed-length DES key-token format which contains a CV valued to
binary zeros, with key length flag (token marks) at offset 59 = X’10’. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>ZEROCV24</b> (DATA key only).<note><b>ZEROCV24</b> is equivalent to IBM Z
<b>KEYLN24</b>.</note></entry>
<entry>Triple-length DATA key. Left, middle, and right key parts not guaranteed unique, ignoring
parity bits.<p>Requires a Version X’01’ fixed-length DES key-token format which contains a CV valued
to binary zeros, with key length flag (token marks) at offset 59 = B’xx20 xxxx’. </p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'001'</entry>
<entry><b>DOUBLE</b>, <b>KEYLN16, MIXED</b></entry>
<entry>Double-length key, right half of CV. Left and right key halves not guaranteed unique,
ignoring parity bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'010'</entry>
<entry><b>DOUBLE, KEYLN16, MIXED</b></entry>
<entry>Double-length key, left half of CV. Left and right key halves not guaranteed unique, ignoring
parity bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'011'</entry>
<entry><b>TRIPLE</b> (Release 5.4 or later)</entry>
<entry>Triple-length key, left and right halves of CV must be equal. Left, middle, and right key
parts not guaranteed unique, ignoring parity bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'100'</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Undefined. This is a control vector violation.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'101'</entry>
<entry><b>DOUBLE-O</b></entry>
<entry>Double-length key, right half of CV. Left and right key halves guaranteed unique, ignoring
parity bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'110'</entry>
<entry><b>DOUBLE-O</b></entry>
<entry>Double-length key, left half of CV. Left and right key halves guaranteed unique, ignoring
parity bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>B'111'</entry>
<entry><b>TRIPLE-O</b> (Release 5.4 or later)</entry>
<entry>Triple-length key, left and right halves of CV must be equal. Left, middle, and right key
parts guaranteed unique, ignoring parity bits.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
