<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="tr31_optional_block_data" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>TR-31 optional block data</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>TR-31 optional block data</navtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): TR-31 optional block data</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>A TR-31 key block can contain an optional block
with IBM-defined data.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<!--Insert <indexterm> tags here-->
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>See <synph><var>X9 TR-31 2010: Interoperable Secure Key
Exchange Block Specification for Symmetric Algorithms</var></synph> for
the definition of a TR-31 key block. As defined by X9 TR-31, a TR-31
key block can contain one or more optional blocks. A TR-31 key block
contains at least one optional block when byte number 12 - 13 is a
value other than ASCII string "00".</p></section>
<section><p>The data of an IBM-defined optional block contains ASCII
string <term>10</term> (<ph>X'3130'</ph>) in the first two bytes,
and contains ASCII string <term>IBMC</term> (<ph>X'49424D43'</ph>)
beginning at offset 4 of the data. CCA treats an optional block with
these characteristics as a proprietary container for a CCA control
vector. See <xref href="#tr31_optional_block_data/tr31_ibm_opt_bl_tab1"></xref>.
An optional block with different characteristics is ignored by CCA.</p></section>
<section><p>If a TR-31 key block contains an optional block as defined
by <xref href="#tr31_optional_block_data/tr31_ibm_opt_bl_tab1"></xref>,
the data contains a copy of the 8-byte or 16-byte DES control vector
that was in the CCA key-token of the key being exported. The copied
control vector is in hex-ASCII format.</p></section>
<section><p>The control vector is only copied from the CCA key-token
when the user of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkext31"></keyword> verb
specifies a control vector transport control keyword (<synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>ATTR-CV</kwd></synph>): <ol>
<li>If the optional block contains a control vector as the result
of specifying the <synph><kwd>INCL-CV</kwd></synph> keyword during
export, the key usage and mode of use fields indicate the key attributes,
and these attributes are verified during export to be compatible with
the ones in the included control vector.</li>
<li>If the optional block contains a control vector as the result
of specifying the <synph><kwd>ATTR-CV</kwd></synph> keyword during
export, the key usage field (byte number 5 - 6 of the TR-31 key block)
is set to the proprietary value <term>10</term> (<ph>X'3130'</ph>),
and the mode of use field (byte number 8) is set to the proprietary
value <term>1</term> (<ph>X'31'</ph>). These proprietary values indicate
that the key attributes are specified in the included control vector.</li>
</ol></p></section>
<section><p>See <xref
href="wskc_c_l0wskc03_zapgtr31.dita#l0wskc03_zapgtr31"></xref> for
additional information on how CCA uses an IBM-defined optional block
in a TR-31 key block.</p></section>
<section><p> <table id="tr31_ibm_opt_bl_tab1" pgwide="0"><title><tm
tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> optional block data in a TR-31
key block</title><desc><p outputclass="summary"><ph><tm tmtype="reg"
trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> optional block data in a TR-31 key block</ph></p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/><colspec colname="col3" colwidth="14*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">00</entry>
<entry colname="col2">02</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Proprietary ID of  TR-31 optional block (alphanumeric-ASCII): <dl
compact="yes"><dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'3130'</ph></dt>
<dd><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> proprietary optional
block (ASCII string <term>10</term>)</dd>
</dlentry></dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">02</entry>
<entry colname="col2">02</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Length of optional block (hex-ASCII): <p>For
TLV valued to <term>01</term>: <dl compact="yes"><dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'3143'</ph></dt>
<dd>"1C" for 8-byte (single-length) control vector</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'3243'</ph></dt>
<dd>"2C" for 16-byte (double-length) control vector</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">Beginning of optional block data</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">04</entry>
<entry colname="col2">04</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Magic value (alphanumeric-ASCII): <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'49424D43'</ph></dt>
<dd>A constant value ("IBMC") used to reduce ambiguity and the chance
for false interpretation of the proprietary optional blocks of non-IBM
vendors. <p>An optional block that uses the same proprietary ID but
does not include this magic value will be ignored.</p></dd>
</dlentry></dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">08</entry>
<entry colname="col2">02</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Tag-length-value (TLV) ID (numeric-ASCII): <dl
compact="yes"><dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'3031'</ph></dt>
<dd><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> CCA control vector (<term>01</term>)</dd>
</dlentry></dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">10</entry>
<entry colname="col2">02</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Length of TLV (hex-ASCII) <p>For TLV valued
to <term>01</term>: <dl compact="yes"><dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'3134'</ph></dt>
<dd>"14" (decimal 20) TLV of 8-byte control vector</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'3234'</ph></dt>
<dd><term>24</term> (decimal 36) TLV of 16-byte control vector</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">12</entry>
<entry colname="col2">16 or 32</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Control vector (hex-ASCII)</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000006107?>
