<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_dkrl" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclprl"></keyword>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclprl"></keyword>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclprl"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"></keyword> verb
creates a key-record-list file containing information about specified
key records in PKA key-storage. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclprl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclprl"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclprl"></keyword>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>environment variable<indexterm>CSUPKADS</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CSUPKADS</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Information includes whether record validation is correct,
the type of key, and the dates and times when the record was created
and last updated.</p></section>
<section><p>Specify the key records to be listed using the <synph><var>key_label</var></synph> parameter.
To identify multiple key records, use the wild card (*) in a key label.</p></section>
<section> <note>To list all the labels in key storage, specify the <synph><var>key_label</var></synph>
parameter with *, *.*, *.*.*, and so forth, up to a maximum of seven name tokens
(*.*.*.*.*.*.*).</note></section>
<section><p>This verb creates the list file and returns the name of the file and the length of the file name
to the calling application. This verb also returns the name of the security server where the file is
stored. The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmprl"/> file has a header
record, followed by 0 - <synph><var>n</var></synph> detail records, where
<synph><var>n</var></synph> is the number of key records with matching key labels. <ph>The file is
kept in the <synph><kwd>/opt/IBM/CCA/keys/pkalist</kwd></synph> directory (assuming the
directory name was not changed during installation). These list files are created under the
ownership of the environment of the user that requests the list verb. Make sure the files created
kept the same group ID as your installation requires. This can also be achieved by setting the
<term>set-group-id-on-execution</term> bit on in this directory. See the <uicontrol>g+s</uicontrol>
flags in the <synph><kwd>chmod</kwd></synph> command for full details. Not doing this might cause
errors to be returned on key-record-list verbs.</ph></p><?Pub Caret 371?>
<p>PKA key records are stored in the external key-storage file defined by the CSUPKADS environment
variable.</p>
<p>For information concerning the location of the key-record-list directory, refer to the <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/security/cryptocards/pciecc4/library" format="html" scope="external"
><cite>IBM 4769 PCIe Cryptographic Coprocessor Installation Manual</cite></xref>.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003529?>
