<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csuaact" rev="sh16">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/>)</title>
 <titlealts>
 <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/> verb allows you
to track the usage of ACPs for a defined span of time, and also allows you to query that tracking
information.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmact"/> verb to start or
stop tracking of access control points (ACPs) that are queried by applications. You can also use
this verb to maintain ACP tracking information. Some key points to consider are: </p>
<ul>
<li>Tracking is started, stopped, and maintained on a per role basis, for one or more role IDs at a
time.</li>
<li>Tracking of ACPs occurs between START and STOP requests.</li>
<li>Whenever an application, that is running under a role ID that is being tracked,  causes an ACP
to be queried, this ACP is tracked.</li>
<li>ACP information is returned on the basis of the selected role ID. <ul>
<li>Data size: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclact"/> uses the same
access-control-point list data structure and transfer semantics as the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmacm"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclacm"/>) verb. Both verbs also share the same
transfer size limitations, if any. It is deemed unlikely that role tracking data for one role passes
the maximum data transfer size for a platform since typically data for a single role is
returned.</li>
<li>If a SIZEDATA request for a given list of roles results in an error that indicates the total
size is too large to transfer, try reducing the size of the list of roles by dividing it into
multiple queries.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Tracking configuration and data is retained inside the cryptographic coprocessor until cleared
by a specific request or re-initialization.</li>
</ul>
<p> To use this verb, do the following: </p>
<ol>
<li>Specify the desired function to perform in the rule array. Choose whether to start or stop
access control tracking, whether to retrieve collected tracking data or the size of that data. You
can also choose to query if tracking is enabled, or clear tracking information.</li>
<li>Use the <parmname>role_ID</parmname> parameter to optionally identify one or more 8-character
role IDs to be tracked. If no role IDs are specified (that is, the
<parmname>role_ID_length</parmname> variable is 0), the verb operates on the <ph rev="sh16i1"
>default role, which all users may use</ph>.</li>
<li>Specify a buffer large enough to receive any output data.</li>
</ol>
<note>
<ol>
<li>Tracking of role IDs has minor performance implications. From the initialization of a role ID
tracking structure after a START until it is cleared, either by the CLRDATA option of this verb or
by a reinitialization of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
application in the coprocessor, two identical copies of the tracking structure are maintained. One
is an in-memory copy, and the other is an in-storage copy. The in-memory copy serves to provide the
least impact on performance, while the in-storage copy serves to survive a power outage. During the
period that a role ID is being tracked, any attempt by that role to access an ACP causes the role ID
access control point list of the in-memory copy to be checked. When an ACP (offset) in the list is
checked and found to be set to B'1' (at least one access attempt for this ACP, whether successful or
not, has been recorded), no further processing is performed. Otherwise, the offset in both the
in-memory and in-storage lists is changed to B'1' from B'0'. This update to both lists only occurs
once per ACP accessed.</li>
<li rev="sh16"><xref href="wskc_acodas_intro.dita#acodas_intro"/> describes the roles and role
structures and provides examples of access control data structures for the roles.</li>
<li>You can also perform ACP tracking with the help of the <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utility.
Refer to <xref href="wskc_c_l0wskc43.dita#l0wskc43"/> and to <xref
href="wskc_panexe_track_acps.dita#panexe_track_acps"/>.</li>
</ol>
</note></section>
</refbody></reference>
