<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_pkatok">
<title>PKA key tokens</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>PKA key tokens</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): PKA key tokens</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc rev="sh21i1">PKA key tokens contain RSA, ECC, or QSA private or public keys.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>PKA key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>Elliptic Curve Cryptography
(ECC)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC)<indexterm>key
token</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token sections</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token identifier</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>PKA tokens are variable length because they contain either RSA, ECC, <ph rev="sh21i1">or QSA</ph>
key values, which are variable in length. Consequently, length parameters precede all PKA token
parameters. The maximum allowed size is <ph rev="sh21i1">6500</ph> bytes. PKA key tokens consist of
a token header, any required sections, and any optional sections. Optional sections depend on the
token type. PKA key tokens can be public or private, and private key tokens can be internal or
external. Therefore, there are three basic types of tokens, each of which can contain either RSA,
ECC, <ph rev="sh21i1">or QSA</ph> information: <ul>
<li>A public key token</li>
<li>A private external key token</li>
<li>A private internal key token</li>
</ul></p>
<p>Public key tokens contain only the public key. Private key tokens contain the public and private
key pair. <xref href="#l0wskc02_pkatok/l0wskc02_pkasum"/> summarizes the sections in each type of
token. </p>
<table id="l0wskc02_pkasum">
<title>Summary of PKA key token sections</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Summary of PKA key token sections</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="193*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="115*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="115*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="117*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Section</entry>
<entry>Public external key token</entry>
<entry>Private external key token</entry>
<entry>Private internal key token</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Header</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>RSA, ECC, <ph rev="sh21i1">or QSA</ph> private key information</entry>
<entry/>
<entry>X</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>RSA, ECC, <ph rev="sh21i1">or QSA</ph> public key information</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Key name (optional, <ph rev="sh21i1">RSA or QSA only</ph>)</entry>
<entry/>
<entry>X</entry>
<entry>X</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Internal information</entry>
<entry/>
<entry/>
<entry>X</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>As with DES key tokens, the first byte of a PKA key token contains
the token identifier which indicates the type of token.</p>
<p>A first byte of X'1E' indicates an external token with a cleartext public key and optionally a
private key that is either in cleartext or enciphered by a transport key-encrypting key. An external
key token is in importable key form. It can be sent on the link.</p>
<p>A first byte of X'1F' indicates an internal token with a cleartext public key and a private key
that is enciphered by the PKA master key and ready for internal use. An internal key token is in
operational key form. A PKA private key token must be in operational form for the coprocessor to use
it. (PKA public key tokens are used directly in the external form.)</p>
</conbody></concept>
