<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_tbs12_sss">
<title>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> subsections</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Trusted block section <ph><ph>X'12'</ph></ph> subsections</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph>
subsections</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Section <ph>X'12'</ph> has five rule subsections (tag-length-value
objects) defined. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>trusted block section X'12'<indexterm>subsections</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>These subsections are summarized in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs12_sss/l0wskc02_tbs12subs"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs12subs" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Summary of trusted
block <ph><ph>X'12'</ph> </ph>subsections</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Summary of
trusted block subsections</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1" align="left">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="40*"/>
<colspec colname="colspec0" colwidth="39*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="69*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="180*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Rule subsection tag</entry>
<entry colname="colspec0" valign="top">TLV object</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional or required</entry>
<entry valign="top">Comments</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0001'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Transport key variant</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional</entry>
<entry valign="top">Contains variant to be XORed into the cleartext
transport key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0002'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Transport key rule reference</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional; required to use an RKX key-token as
a transport key </entry>
<entry valign="top">Contains the rule ID for the rule that must have
been used to create the transport key. </entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0003'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Common export key parameters</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional for key generation; required for key
export of an existing key </entry>
<entry valign="top">Contains the export key and source key minimum
and maximum lengths, an output key variant length and variant, a CV
length, and a CV to be XORed with the cleartext transport key to control
usage of the key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0004'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Source key reference</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional; required if the source key is an RKX
key-token</entry>
<entry>Contains the rule ID for the rule used to create the source
key.
<note>Include all rules that will ever be needed when
a trusted block is created.  A rule cannot be added to a trusted block
after it has been created.</note></entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><ph>X'0005'</ph></entry>
<entry colname="colspec0">Export key CCA token parameters</entry>
<entry valign="top">Optional; used for export of CCA DES key tokens
only </entry>
<entry valign="top">Contains mask length, mask, and CV template to
limit the usage of the exported key.  Also contains the template length
and template that defines which source key labels are allowed.
<p>The
key type of a source key input parameter can be "filtered" by using
the export key CV limit mask (offset 005) and limit template (offset
005 + <i>yyy</i>) in this subsection.</p></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<note>See <xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>.</note></p></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0001'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0001'</ph> of the trusted block rule section (<ph>X'12'</ph>)
is the transport key variant TLV object.  This subsection is optional.
 It contains a variant to be XORed into the cleartext transport key. </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs12_sss/l0wskc02_tbs12_ss001"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs12_ss001" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Transport key
variant subsection <ph>(<ph>X'0001'</ph>)</ph> of trusted block rule
section (<ph><ph>X'12'</ph></ph>)</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Transport key variant
subsection of trusted block rule section </p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag:
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'0001'</ph></dt>
<dd>Transport key variant TLV object</dd></dlentry>
</dl> </entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (8 + <i>nnn</i>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">007</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length of variant field in bytes (<i>nnn</i>).
<p>This
length must be greater than or equal to the length of the transport
key that is identified by the <i>transport_key_identifier</i> parameter.
If the variant is longer than the key, truncate it on the right to
the length of the key prior to use.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top"><i>nnn</i></entry>
<entry valign="top">Transport key variant.
<p>XOR this variant into
the cleartext transport key, provided:  (1) the length of the variant
field value (offset 007) is not zero, and (2) the symmetric encrypted
output key format flag (offset 018 in section <ph>X'12'</ph>) is <ph>X'01'</ph>.
<note>A transport key is not used when the symmetric encrypted
output key is in RKX key-token format. </note></p></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section><section>
<note>See <xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>.</note></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0002'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0002'</ph> of the trusted block rule section (<ph>X'12'</ph>)
is the transport key rule reference TLV object.  This subsection is
optional.  It contains the rule ID for the rule that must have been
used to create the transport key. This subsection must be present
to use an RKX key-token as a transport key. </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs12_sss/l0wskc02_tbs12_ss002"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs12_ss002" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><ph>Transport
key rule reference subsection (<ph>X'0002'</ph>) of trusted block rule
section (<ph>X'12'</ph>)</ph></title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Transport key rule reference
subsection of trusted block rule section </p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag:
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'0002'</ph></dt>
<dd>Transport key rule reference TLV object</dd></dlentry>
</dl> </entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (14).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">006</entry>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top">Rule ID.
<p>Contains the rule identifier for the
rule that must have been used to create the RKX key-token used as
the transport key. </p>
<p>The Rule ID is an 8-byte string of ASCII
characters, left-aligned and padded on the right with space characters.
Acceptable characters are A - Z, a - z, 0 - 9, - (<ph>X'2D'</ph>),
and _ (<ph>X'5F'</ph>). All other characters are reserved for future
use.</p></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section><section>
<note>See <xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>.</note></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0003'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0003'</ph> of the trusted block rule section <ph>X'12'</ph>) is the common
export key parameters TLV object. This subsection is optional, but is required for the key export of
an existing source key (identified by the <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter) in either RKX
key-token format or CCA DES key-token format. For new key generation, this subsection applies the
output key variant to the cleartext generated key, if such an option is desired. It contains the
input source key and output export key minimum and maximum lengths, an output key variant length and
variant, a CV length, and a CV to be XORed with the cleartext transport key. </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs12_sss/common12"/>.
<table id="common12" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><ph>Common export key parameters
subsection (<ph>X'0003'</ph>) of trusted block rule section (<ph>X'12'</ph>)</ph></title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Common export key parameters subsection of trusted block
rule section </p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag:
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'0003'</ph></dt>
<dd>Common export key parameters TLV object</dd></dlentry>
</dl> </entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (12 + <i>xxx</i> + <i>yyy</i>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">007</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Flags (must be set to binary zero).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">008</entry>
<entry colname="col2">001</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Export key minimum length in bytes. Length must
be 0, 8, 16, or 24.
<p>Also applies to the source key. Not applicable
for key generation.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">009</entry>
<entry colname="col2">001</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Export key maximum length in bytes (<i>yyy</i>). Length must be 0, 8, 16, or 24.
<p>Also applies
to the source key. Not applicable for key generation.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">010</entry>
<entry colname="col2">001</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Output key variant length in bytes (<i>xxx</i>).
<p>Valid values are 0 or 8 - 255. If greater
than 0, the length must be at least as long as the longest key ever
to be exported using this rule. If the variant is longer than the
key, truncate it on the right to the length of the key prior to use.
<note>The output key variant (offset 011) is not used if this
length is zero.</note></p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">011</entry>
<entry valign="top"><i>xxx</i></entry>
<entry valign="top">Output key variant.
<p>The variant can be any
value. XOR this variant into the cleartext value of the output key.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">011 + <i>xxx</i></entry>
<entry colname="col2">001</entry>
<entry colname="col3">CV length in bytes (<i>yyy</i>).
<ul compact="yes">
<li>If the length is not 0, 8, or 16, return an error.</li>
<li>If the length is 0, and if the source key is a CCA DES key-token,
preserve the CV in the symmetric encrypted output if the output is
to be in the form of a CCA DES key-token. </li>
<li>If a nonzero length  is less than the length of the key identified
by the <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter, return
an error.</li>
<li>If the length is 16, and if the CV (offset 012 + <i>xxx</i>)
is valued to 16 bytes of <ph>X'00'</ph> (ignoring the key-part bit),
 then:
<ol compact="yes">
<li>Ignore all CV bit definitions</li>
<li>If CCA DES key-token format, set the flag byte of the symmetric
encrypted output key to indicate a CV value is present.</li>
<li>If the source key is eight bytes in length, do not replicate the
key to 16 bytes</li>
</ol></li>
</ul> </entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">012 + <i>xxx</i></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry colname="col3">CV. (See <xref href="wskc_c_cvtable.dita#l0wskc02_cvtable"/>.)
<p>Place
this CV into the output exported key-token, provided that the symmetric
encrypted output key format selected (offset 018 in rule section)
is CCA DES key-token.
<ul compact="yes">
<li>If the symmetric encrypted output key format flag (offset 018
in section <ph>X'12'</ph>) indicates return an RKX key-token (<ph>X'00'</ph>),
then ignore this CV. Otherwise, XOR this CV into the cleartext transport
key.</li>
<li>XOR the CV of the source key into the cleartext transport key
if the CV length (offset 011 + <i>xxx</i>) is set
to 0. If a transport key to encrypt a source key has equal left and
right key halves, return an error. Replicate the key halves of the
key identified by the <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter
whenever all of these conditions are met:
<ol compact="yes">
<li>The Key Generate - SINGLE-R command (offset <ph>X'00DB'</ph>) is
enabled in the active role</li>
<li>The CV length (offset 011 + <i>xxx</i>) is 16,
and both CV halves are nonzero </li>
<li>The <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter (contained
in either a CCA DES key-token or RKX key-token) identifies an 8-byte
key </li>
<li>The key-form bits (40 - 42) of this CV do not indicate a single-length
key (are not set to zero)</li>
<li>Key-form bit 40 of this CV does not indicate the key is to have
guaranteed unique halves (is not set to <ph>B'1'</ph>). See <xref href="wskc_r_kformbfff.dita#l0wskc02_kformbfff"/>.</li>
</ol></li>
</ul>
<note>A transport key is not used when the symmetric
encrypted output key is in RKX key-token format.</note></p></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<note>See <xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>.</note></p></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0004'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0004'</ph> of the trusted block rule section (<ph>X'12'</ph>)
is the source key rule reference TLV object. This subsection is optional,
but is required if using an RKX key-token as a source key (identified
by <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter). It contains
the rule ID for the rule used to create the export key.  If this subsection
is not present, an RKX key-token format source key will not be accepted
for use. </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs12_sss/l0wskc02_tbs12_ss004"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs12_ss004" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><ph>Source key
rule reference subsection (<ph>X'0004'</ph>)</ph> of trusted block
rule section (<ph><ph>X'12'</ph></ph>)</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Source key rule
reference subsection of trusted block rule section </p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag:
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'0004'</ph></dt>
<dd>Source key rule reference TLV object</dd></dlentry>
</dl></entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (14).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">006</entry>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top">Rule ID.
<p>Rule identifier for the rule that
must have been used to create the source key. </p>
<p>The Rule ID is
an 8-byte string of ASCII characters, left-aligned and padded on the
right with space characters. Acceptable characters are A - Z, a -
z, 0 - 9, - (<ph>X'2D'</ph>), and _ (<ph>X'5F'</ph>). All other characters
are reserved for future use.</p></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<note>See <xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>.</note></p></section>
<section><p><b>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> subsection <ph>X'0005'</ph></b></p></section>
<section><p>Subsection <ph>X'0005'</ph> of the trusted block rule section (<ph>X'12'</ph>)
is the export key CCA token parameters TLV object. This subsection
is optional. It contains a mask length, mask, and template for the
export key CV limit. It also contains the template length and template
for the source key label.  When using a CCA DES key-token as a source
key input parameter, its key type can be "filtered" by using the export
key CV limit mask (offset 005) and limit template (offset 005+<i>yyy</i>) in this subsection. </p></section>
<section><p>This subsection is defined in <xref href="#l0wskc02_tbs12_sss/l0wskc02_tbs12_ss005"/>.
<table id="l0wskc02_tbs12_ss005" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title><ph>Export key
CCA token parameters subsection (<ph>X'0005'</ph>)</ph> of trusted
block rule section (<ph><ph>X'12'</ph></ph>)</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Export key
CCA token parameters subsection of trusted block rule section </p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection tag:
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry><dt><ph>X'0005'</ph></dt>
<dd>Export key CCA token parameters TLV object</dd></dlentry>
</dl></entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection length in bytes (8 + <i>yyy</i> + <i>yyy</i> + <i>zzz</i>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Subsection version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">005</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Reserved, must be binary zero.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">007</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Flags (must be set to binary zero).</entry></row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Export key CV limit mask length in bytes (<i>yyy</i>).
<p>Do not use CV limits if this CV limit
mask length (<i>yyy</i>) is zero. Use CV limits if <i>yyy</i> is nonzero, in which case <i>yyy</i>:
<ul compact="yes">
<li>Must be 8 or 16</li>
<li>Must not be less than the export key minimum length (offset 008
in subsection <ph>X'0003'</ph>) </li>
<li>Must be equal in length to the actual source key length of the
key</li>
</ul></p>
<p><b>Example</b>: An export key minimum length
of 16 and an export key CV limit mask length of 8 returns an error.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">009</entry>
<entry colname="col2"><i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry colname="col3">Export key CV limit mask (does not exist if <i>yyy</i>=0).
<p>See <xref href="wskc_r_cvbbmap.dita#l0wskc02_cvbbmap"/></p>
<p>Indicates which CV bits to check against the source
key CV limit template (offset 009 + <i>yyy</i>).</p>
<p><b>Examples</b>: A mask of <ph>X'FF'</ph> means check all
bits in a byte.  A mask of <ph>X'FE'</ph> ignores the parity bit in
a byte.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">009 + <i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry colname="col3">Export key CV limit template (does not exist
if <i>yyy</i> = 0).
<p>Specifies the required values
for those CV bits that are checked based on the export key CV limit
mask (offset 009). (See <xref href="wskc_r_cvbbmap.dita#l0wskc02_cvbbmap"/>.) </p>
<p>The
export key CV limit mask and template have the same length, <i>yyy</i>.  This is because these two variables work
together to restrict the acceptable CVs for CCA DES key tokens to
be exported. The checks work as follows:
<ol compact="yes">
<li>If the length of the key to be exported is less than <i>yyy</i>, return an error </li>
<li>Logical AND the CV for the key to be exported with the export
key CV limit mask</li>
<li>Compare the result to the export key CV limit template</li>
<li>Return an error if the comparison is not equal</li>
</ol></p>
<p><b>Examples</b>:  An export key CV limit
mask of <ph>X'FF'</ph> for CV byte 1 (key type) along with an export
key CV limit template of <ph>X'3F'</ph> (key type CVARENC) for byte
1 filters out all key types except CVARENC keys.
<note>Using
the mask and template to permit multiple key types is possible, but
cannot consistently be achieved with one rule section.  For example,
setting bit 10 to <ph>B'1'</ph> in the mask and the template permits
PIN processing keys and cryptographic variable encrypting keys, and
only those keys. However, a mask to permit PIN-processing keys and
key-encrypting keys, and only those keys, is not possible. In this
case, multiple rule sections are required, one to permit PIN-processing
keys and the other to permit key-encrypting keys.</note></p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">009 + <i>yyy</i> + <i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry colname="col2">001</entry>
<entry colname="col3">Source key label template length in bytes (<i>zzz</i>).
<p>Valid values are 0 and 64. Return an error
if the length is 64 and a source key label is not provided.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">010 + <i>yyy</i> + <i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry colname="col2"><i>zzz</i></entry>
<entry colname="col3">Source key label template (does not exist if <i>zzz</i> = 0).
<p>If a key label is identified by the <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter, verify that the
key label name matches this template.  If the comparison fails, return
an error. The source key label template must conform to the following
rules:
<ul compact="yes">
<li>The key label template must be 64 bytes in length </li>
<li>The first character cannot be in the range <ph>X'00'</ph> - <ph>X'1F'</ph>,
nor can it be <ph>X'FF'</ph></li>
<li>The first character cannot be numeric (<ph>X'30'</ph> - <ph>X'39'</ph>) </li>
<li>A key label name is terminated by a space character (<ph>X'20'</ph>)
on the right and must be padded on the right with space characters </li>
<li>The only special characters permitted are #, $, @, and * (<ph>X'23'</ph>, <ph>X'24'</ph>, <ph>X'40'</ph>,
and <ph>X'2A'</ph>) </li>
<li>The wildcard <ph>X'2A'</ph> (*) is permitted only as the first
character, the last character, or the only character in the template</li>
<li>Only alphanumeric characters (a - z, A - Z, 0 - 9), the four special
characters (<ph>X'23'</ph>, <ph>X'24'</ph>, <ph>X'40'</ph>, and <ph>X'2A'</ph>),
and the space character (<ph>X'20'</ph>) are allowed</li>
</ul></p></entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<note>See <xref href="wskc_r_stoknbin.dita#l0wskc02_stoknbin"/>.</note></p></section>
</refbody></reference>
