<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_pcuparameters">
<title>Parameters</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>control information<indexterm>for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>TDES-XOR</indexterm>
<indexterm>TDESEMV2</indexterm>
<indexterm>TDESEMV4</indexterm>
<indexterm>VISAPCU1</indexterm>
<indexterm>VISAPCU2</indexterm>
<indexterm>authentication_master_key parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>encryption_master_key parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key_generation_data parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>new_reference_PIN_key parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>new_reference_PIN_block parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>new_reference_PIN_profile parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>new_reference_PAN_data parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>current_reference_PIN_key parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>current_reference_PIN_block parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>current_reference_PIN_profile parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>current_reference_PAN_data parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_PIN_data parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_PIN_profile parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_PIN_message parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the <i>rule_array</i>
variable. This value must be 1 or 2.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Keywords that provide control information to the <ph>verb</ph>. The keywords are
left-aligned in an 8-byte field and padded on the right with blanks. The keywords must be in
contiguous storage. The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords are described in <xref
href="#l0wskc02_pcuparameters/l0wskc02_pcu_tab1"/>.<table id="l0wskc02_pcu_tab1" pgwide="1"
frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="16*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Algorithm</i></b> (One, optional)</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry><synph><kwd>AES-EMV1</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The ICC master key is derived according to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/> verb with option MK-OPTC. The EMV
common session key is derived according to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/> verb with option SESS-ENC. The
<parmname>encryption_master_key</parmname> parameter must refer to an AES key. Only valid with the
<keyword>EMV-PCU1PIN</keyword> processing method.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TDES-XOR</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>TDES encipher clear data to generate the intermediate (card-unique) key, followed by XOR of
the final two bytes of each key with the ATC counter. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TDESEMV2</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Same processing as in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg"
/> verb.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TDESEMV4</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Same processing as in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg"
/> verb.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PIN processing method</i></b> (One, required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>AMEXPCU1</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Form the new PIN from the new reference PIN, the smart-card-unique, intermediate key, and the
current reference PIN.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>AMEXPCU2</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Form the new PIN from the new reference PIN and the smart-card-unique, intermediate
key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>VISAPCU1</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Form the new PIN from the new reference PIN and the intermediate (card-unique) key
only.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>VISAPCU2</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Form the new PIN from the new reference PIN, the intermediate (card-unique) key and the
current reference PIN.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry><synph><kwd>EMV-PCU1</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The new PIN is passed in the <parmname>new_reference_PIN_*</parmname> set of parameters. The
contents of the five <parmname>current_reference_PIN_*</parmname> variables are ignored. <p>The PIN
block is formatted according to EMV v4.3 Book 2 Format 1 and detailed in EMV Common Payment
Application (2011) as updated by SB165. TDES-CBC or AES encryption over the PIN block is done
according to the issuer master key passed in and EMV v4.3 Book 2. </p>
<note>The <parmname>authentication_master_key</parmname> parameter is ignored. The EMV PIN-change
command creation process calculates a MAC over the full message using a derived session key and
recommends MAC chaining across EMV commands which is outside the scope of this service.</note>
<p>Valid with the AES-EMV1, TDES-XOR, TDESEMV2, and TDESEMV4 algorithm keywords.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>authentication_master_key_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>authentication_master_key</parmname> parameter. For PIN processing method
<keyword>EMV-PCU1</keyword>, the <parmname>authentication_master_key_length</parmname> must be 0 for 
future compatibility. Otherwise, the value must be 64.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>authentication_master_key</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The label name or internal token of a <synph><kwd>DKYGENKY</kwd></synph> key type that is to
be used to generate the card-unique diversified key. The control vector of this key must be a
<synph><kwd>DKYL0</kwd></synph> key that permits the generation of a double-length
<synph><kwd>MAC</kwd></synph> key (<synph><kwd>DMAC</kwd></synph>). This
<synph><kwd>DKYGENKY</kwd></synph> must not have replicated key halves. <p rev="sh21i1">For PIN
processing method EMV-PCU1, the <parmname>authentication_master_key</parmname> must be a NULL token
(64 bytes of X'00').</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>encryption_master_key_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>encryption_master_key</parmname> parameter. 
<p rev="sh21i1">For TDES-XOR, TDESEMV2, and TDESEMV4, the value must be 64. 
For AES-EMV1, the value must be between the actual length of the token and 725.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>encryption_master_key</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The label name or internal token of a <synph><kwd>DKYGENKY</kwd></synph> key type that is to
be used to generate the card-unique diversified key. <ph rev="sh21i1">The key may be a DES key
(TDES-XOR, TDESEMV2, or TDESEMV4) or an AES key (AES-EMV1).</ph>
<p rev="sh21i1">For a DES key, the control vector of this key must be a DKYL0 key that permits the
generation of a double-length PIN encryption key (DMPIN). This DKYGENKY must not have replicated key
halves. </p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For an AES key, the variable-length symmetric key token must have a token algorithm
of AES and a key type of DKYGENKY, sequence level of DKYL0 or DKYL1, and key type to diversify of
D-PPROT or D-ALL. For an AES D-PPROT key, the key usage fields must indicate that the derived key
can be used for encryption (ENCRYPT), the encryption mode must be Cipher Block Chaining (CBC),
common usage control must be NOFLDFMT, PIN block format usage must be ISO-4, and PIN services
control must include PINXLATE or REFORMAT.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_generation_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>key_generation_data</parmname> parameter. 
<ph rev="sh21i1">For TDES-XOR, TDESEMV2, or TDESEMV4, this
value must be 10, 18, 26, or 34 bytes. For AES-EMV1, this value must be 32.</ph></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_generation_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The data provided to generate the card-unique session key. <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>TDES key generation:</dt>
<dd>For <keyword>TDES-XOR</keyword>, this consists of 8 or 16 bytes of data to be processed by TDES to generate the
card-unique diversified key followed by a 16 bit ATC counter to offset the card-unique diversified
key to form the session key. For<synph><kwd>TDESEMV2</kwd></synph> and
<synph><kwd>TDESEMV4</kwd></synph>, this can be 10, 18, 26 or 34 bytes. See <xref
href="wskc_r_dkg.dita#l0wskc02_dkg"/> for more information.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="sh21i1">
<dt>AES key generation:</dt>
<dd>For <keyword>AES-EMV1</keyword>, this parameter consists of 2 sections of 16 bytes each, holding
first the derivation data for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/> service MK-OPTC and second the
derivation data for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/>
service SESS-ENC. The MK-OPTC derivation data is specified in <cite>EMV v4.3 Book 2 section A1.4.3
'Option C' (PAN and PAN sequence number, padded)</cite>. The SESS-ENC derivation data should be as
specified in <cite>EMV v4.3 Book 2 section A1.3.1 'Common Session Key Derivation Option'
(Application Cryptogram,
padded)</cite>.<codeblock>Derivation data :: [ 16-byte MK-OPTC data || 16-byte SESS-ENC data ]</codeblock></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>new_reference_PIN_key_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>new_reference_PIN_key</parmname> parameter. 
<ph rev="sh21i1">The key may be a DES key (all <parmname>new_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> 
PIN block formats except ISO-4) or an AES key (<parmname>new_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block format ISO-4).
</ph>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES keys, the value must be 64.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES keys, the value must be between the actual length of the token and 725.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>new_reference_PIN_key</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The label name or internal token of a PIN encrypting key that is to be used to decrypt the
<synph><var>new_reference_PIN_block</var></synph>. <p rev="sh21i1">If the label name is supplied,
the name must be unique in the CKDS. The key may be a DES key (all
<parmname>new_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block formats except ISO-4) or an AES key
(<parmname>new_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block format ISO-4).</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES keys, the control vector in the fixed-length token must specify an
<synph><kwd>IPINENC</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>OPINENC</kwd></synph> key.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES keys, the variable-length symmetric key-token must have a token algorithm of
AES and a key type of PINPROT. In addition, the key usage fields must indicate that the key can be
used for encryption (<synph><kwd>ENCRYPT</kwd></synph>) or decryption
(<synph><kwd>DECRYPT</kwd></synph>), the encryption mode must be Cipher Block Chaining (CBC), common
usage control must be <synph><kwd>NOFLDFMT</kwd></synph>. The PIN block format usage must be ISO-4,
and PIN services control must include <synph><kwd>PINXLATE</kwd></synph> or
<synph><kwd>REFORMAT</kwd></synph>.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>new_reference_PIN_block</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><ph rev="sh21i1">This field contains the enciphered PIN block of the new PIN. 
When the <parmname>new_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> specifies ISO-4, the 
<parmname>new_reference_PIN_block</parmname> is 16 bytes long. For all other formats, the
<parmname>new_reference_PIN_block</parmname> is 8 bytes long.</ph></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>new_reference_PIN_profile</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This is a 24-byte field that contains three 8-byte elements with a PIN block format keyword,
a format control keyword (NONE), and a pad digit as required by certain formats.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>new_reference_PAN_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p rev="sh21i1">A primary account number (PAN) in character format. The service uses this parameter
if the PIN profile specifies the <synph><kwd>ISO-0</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ISO-3</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>VISA-4</kwd></synph> keyword for the
<parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block format. Otherwise, ensure that this parameter is a
12-byte value in application storage. The information in this parameter is ignored, but the
parameter must be specified.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the <synph><kwd>ISO-0</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ISO-3</kwd></synph>, or
<synph><kwd>VISA-4</kwd></synph> keyword, the value is 12 bytes long. Use the 12 rightmost digits of
the PAN data, excluding the check digit.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the <synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph> keyword, the value is 21 bytes long.
The PAN data is 10 – 19 bytes long. The length of the PAN data and the PAN data are contained in the
structure below padded to 21 bytes with characters that is ignored.</p>
<table rev="sh21i1" id="pan_data_struc_pcu" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>PAN data structure</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">PAN data structure for the PIN Change Unblock verb</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset</entry>
<entry>Length</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Length of the PAN data field, p.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>p</entry>
<entry>10 to 19 bytes of PAN data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2+p</entry>
<entry>0-9</entry>
<entry>Padding.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>current_reference_PIN_key_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>current_reference_PIN_key</parmname> parameter. <ph rev="sh21i1"
>The key may be a DES key (all <parmname>current_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block formats
except ISO-4) or an AES key (<parmname>current_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block format
ISO-4).</ph>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES keys, the value must be 64.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES keys, the value must be between the actual length of the token and 725.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>current_reference_PIN_key</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The label name or internal token of a PIN encrypting key that is to be used to decrypt the
<parmname>current_reference_PIN_block</parmname>. <ph rev="sh21i1">If the label name is supplied,
the name must be unique on the CKDS. The key may be a DES key (all
<parmname>current_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block formats except ISO-4) or an AES key
(<parmname>current_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block format ISO-4).</ph>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES keys, the control vector in the fixed-length token must specify an
<synph><kwd>IPINENC</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>OPINENC</kwd></synph> key.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES keys, the variable-length symmetric key-token must have a token algorithm of
AES and a key type of PINPROT. In addition, the key usage fields must indicate that the key can be
used for encryption (<synph><kwd>ENCRYPT</kwd></synph>) or decryption
(<synph><kwd>DECRYPT</kwd></synph>), the encryption mode must be Cipher Block Chaining (CBC), common
usage control must be <synph><kwd>NOFLDFMT</kwd></synph>, PIN block format usage must be ISO-4, and
PIN services control must include <synph><kwd>PINXLATE</kwd></synph> or
<synph><kwd>REFORMAT</kwd></synph>.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>current_reference_PIN_block</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This field contains the enciphered PIN block of the new PIN. <ph rev="sh21i1">When the
<parmname>current_reference_PIN_profile</parmname> specifies ISO-4, the
<parmname>current_reference_PIN_block</parmname> is 16 bytes long. For all other formats, the
<parmname>current_reference_PIN_block</parmname> is 8 bytes long.</ph></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>current_reference_PIN_profile</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This is a 24-byte field that contains three 8-byte elements with a PIN block format keyword,
a format control keyword (NONE), and a pad digit as required by certain formats. If the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> contains <synph><kwd>VISAPCU1</kwd></synph>, this value is
ignored.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>current_reference_PAN_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p rev="sh21i1">A primary account number (PAN) in character format. The service uses this parameter if the PIN
profile specifies the <synph><kwd>ISO-0</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ISO-3</kwd></synph>, 
<synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>VISA-4</kwd></synph> keyword for the 
<parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname> PIN block format. 
Otherwise, ensure that this parameter is a 12-byte value in application storage. The
information in this parameter is ignored, but the parameter must be specified.
</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the <synph><kwd>ISO-0</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ISO-3</kwd></synph>, 
or <synph><kwd>VISA-4</kwd></synph> keyword, the value is 12 bytes long. Use the 12 rightmost
digits of the PAN data, excluding the check digit.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the <synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph> keyword, the value is 21 bytes long.
The PAN data is 10 – 19 bytes long. The length of the PAN data and the PAN data are contained in the
structure shown in <xref href="#l0wskc02_pcuparameters/pan_data_struc2_pcu" format="dita"/>  padded
to 21 bytes with characters that are ignored.</p>
<table rev="sh21i1" id="pan_data_struc2_pcu" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>PAN data structure</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">PAN data structure for the PIN Change Unblock verb</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset</entry>
<entry>Length</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Length of the PAN data field, p.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>p</entry>
<entry>10 to 19 bytes of PAN data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2+p</entry>
<entry>0-9</entry>
<entry>Padding.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>output_PIN_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Currently this field is reserved. This value must be 0.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>output_PIN_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>output_PIN_profile</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><ph rev="sh21i1">This is a 24-byte field that contains three 8-byte elements with a PIN
block format keyword (<synph><kwd>VISAPCU1</kwd></synph>,  <synph><kwd>VISCPU2</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>AMEXPCU1</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>AMEXPCU2</kwd></synph>, or
<synph><kwd>EMV-PCU1</kwd></synph>), a format control keyword (NONE, left aligned and padded on the
right with space characters), and eight bytes of spaces.</ph></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>output_PIN_message_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>output_PIN_message</parmname> field. 
<ph rev="sh21i1">The value must be at least 16 for EMV-PCU1, VISAPCU1,
and VISAPCU2 and at least 8 for AMEXPCU1 and AMEXPCU2.</ph></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>output_PIN_message</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The reformatted PIN block with the new reference PIN enciphered under the SMPIN session
key.</pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
