<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_chp2keyform">
<title>Key forms</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Key forms</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Key forms</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>A key that is protected under the master key is in <term>operational form</term>, which
means the coprocessor can use it in cryptographic functions on the system.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>transport key</indexterm>
<indexterm>key
form<indexterm>importable</indexterm><indexterm>operational</indexterm><indexterm>exportable</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>operational key form</indexterm>
<indexterm>exportable key form</indexterm>
<indexterm>importable key form</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>When you store a key with a file or send it to another system, the key is enciphered under a
transport key rather than the master key. The transport key is a key shared by your system and
another system for the purpose of securely exchanging other keys. When CCA enciphers a key under a
transport key, the key is not in operational form and cannot be used to perform cryptographic
functions.</p>
<p>When a key is enciphered under a transport key, the sending system
considers the key in <i>exportable form</i>. The
receiving system considers the key in <i>importable
form</i>. When a key is re-enciphered from under a transport key
to under a system's master key, it is in operational form again. </p>
<p>Enciphered keys appear in three forms. The form you need depends
on how and when you use a key.
<ul>
<li><b>Operational</b> key form is used at the local system. Many verbs can use an operational key
form. <p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkim"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkm"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcki"/>, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmckm"/> verbs can create an operational key
form.</p></li>
<li><b>Exportable</b> key form is transported to another cryptographic system. It can be passed only
to another system. The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
<ph>verbs</ph> cannot use it for cryptographic functions. The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkx"/>, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkex"/>
<ph>verbs</ph> produce the exportable key form.</li>
<li><b>Importable</b> key form can be transformed into
operational form on the local system. The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkim"/> <ph>verb</ph> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkim"/>)
and the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkm"/> <ph>verb</ph> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkm"/>) can <i>use</i> an
importable key form. Only the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"/> <ph>verb</ph> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn"/>)
can <i>create</i> an importable key form.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>For more information about the key types, see <xref href="wskc_c_crypkey.dita#l0wskc02_crypkey"/>. See <xref href="wskc_c_kegekf.dita#l0wskc02_kegekf"/> for
more information about key form.</p>
<section><title>Symmetric key (DES, AES) flow</title><indexterm>DES key flow</indexterm><p>The
conversion from one key to another key is considered to be a one-way flow. An operational key form
cannot be turned back into an importable key form. An exportable key form cannot be turned back into
an operational or importable key form. The flow of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key forms can be in only one
direction:</p><codeblock>IMPORTABLE &mdash;to&rarr; OPERATIONAL &mdash;to&rarr; EXPORTABLE</codeblock></section>
</conbody></concept>