<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="rcsfb4-gen392_parameters" xml:lang="en-us" rev="hw20i1">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34r"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"
/><indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>,
<synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>, and
<synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"
/>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The number of keywords you supplied in the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter. The value
must be 1 - 5.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Character</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The <i>rule_array</i> contains keywords that provide control information to the callable service.
The keywords must be in contiguous storage with each of the keywords left-justified in its own
8-byte location and padded on the right with blanks.</p>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" pgwide="1"><title>Keywords for TR-34
Key Receive</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for TR-34 Key Receive. This table contains two columns: Keyword
and Meaning, and it contains rows for Requested action (one, required), Public Key Infrastructure
Usage (one, optional), Freshness Indicator Usage (one, required with 1PASSRCV), Key Wrapping Method
(One Optional), and Translation Control (One Optional).</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.9*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Requested action</i></b> (one, required).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2PASSRCV</entry>
<entry>TR34 Key Transport (2-pass) KTKDH RECEIVE service.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1PASSRCV</entry>
<entry>TR34 Key Transport (1-pass) KTKDH RECEIVE service.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Public key infrastructure usage</i></b> (one,
optional).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-CHK</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is to be validated against the
trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This requires that the CA credentials have been
installed using the Trusted Key Entry (TKE) workstation. This is required for compliance-tagged key
token export with TR-34 services.<p>This is the default.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-NONE</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is not to be validated against
the trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This is suitable if the certificate has been
validated using host-based PKI services.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Freshness Indicator Usage</i></b> (one, required with
1PASSRCV). Only valid with keyword 1PASSRCV.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>TIME-CHK</entry>
<entry>Specifies to check the timestamp in the <i>input_freshness_indicator</i> parameter against
the timestamp in the KTKDH received in the <i>input_token</i> parameter. The verification step will
only check that the timestamp in the KTKDH is newer than timestamp in the
<i>input_freshness_indicator</i> parameter. The timestamp from the KTKDH will still be returned in
the <i>output_freshness_indicator</i> parameter.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>TIMENONE</entry>
<entry>Specifies to not check the timestamp in the <i>input_freshness_indicator</i> parameter
against the timestamp in the KTKDH received in the <i>input_token</i> parameter. The timestamp from
the KTKDH will be returned in the <i>output_freshness_indicator</i> parameter so that the
application can verify the value.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Key Wrapping Method</i></b> (one optional). Applicable only to
DES algorithm imported keys.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>USECONFG</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the configuration setting for the default wrapping method is to be used to
wrap the key. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>WRAP-ENH</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the new enhanced wrapping method is to be used to wrap the key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>WRAP-ECB</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the original wrapping method is to be used.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry>WRAPENH2</entry>
<entry>Specifies to wrap the key using the enhanced wrapping method and SHA-256. Valid only for
TRIPLE or TRIPLE-O. This method requires CV bit 56 = B’1’ (ENH-ONLY). This is the default
for TRIPLE and TRIPLE-O.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry>WRAPENH3</entry>
<entry>Specifies to wrap the key using the enhanced wrapping method with TDES-CMAC and the
SHA-256 hashing algorithm. This keyword sets CV bit 56 = B’1’ (ENH-ONLY), which is
required for the WRAPENH3 wrapping method.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Translation Control</i></b>  (one optional). Applicable only
to DES algorithm imported keys.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ENH-ONLY</entry>
<entry>Specify this keyword to indicate that the key once wrapped with the enhanced method cannot be
wrapped with the CCA legacy method. This restricts translation to the CCA legacy method. If the
keyword is not specified, translation to the CCA legacy method will be allowed. This turns on bit 56
in the control vector.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" pgwide="1" id="importDEStr34"><title>Input translation
table for DES key usage</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Input translation table for DES key usage.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="7">
<colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c5" colnum="6" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c6" colnum="7" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>TR-31 mode of key use</entry>
<entry>Key block version ID </entry>
<entry>TR-31 mode of key use</entry>
<entry>Rule-array keywords</entry>
<entry>CCA key type and key-usage attributes of output key</entry>
<entry>Offset (hex)</entry>
<entry>Access control name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>K0, K1</entry>
<entry>"A", "B", "C", "D"</entry>
<entry>"E"</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>EXPORTER</entry>
<entry>0248</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Receive – Permit DES EXPORTER</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>K0, K1</entry>
<entry>"A", "B", "C", "D"</entry>
<entry>"D"</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>IMPORTER</entry>
<entry>0249</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Receive – Permit DES IMPORTER</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" pgwide="1" id="table_lcg_4fp_xhb"><title>Input translation
table for AES key usage</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Input translation table for AES key usage.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="7">
<colspec colname="newCol1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c5" colnum="6" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c6" colnum="7" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>TR-31 mode of key use</entry>
<entry>Key block version ID </entry>
<entry>TR-31 mode of key use</entry>
<entry>Rule-array keywords</entry>
<entry>CCA key type and key-usage attributes of output key</entry>
<entry>Offset (hex)</entry>
<entry>Access control name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry morerows="1">K0</entry>
<entry morerows="1"> "D"</entry>
<entry>"E"</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>EXPORTER</entry>
<entry>024A</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Receive – Permit AES EXPORTER</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>"D"</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>IMPORTER</entry>
<entry>024B</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Receive – Permit AES IMPORTER</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1">K1</entry>
<entry morerows="1">"D"</entry>
<entry>"E"</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>EXPORTER + EXPTT31D</entry>
<entry>024C</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Receive – Permit AES EXPORTER with EXPTT31D</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>"D"</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>IMPORTER + IMPTT31D</entry>
<entry>024D</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Receive – Permit AES IMPORTER with IMPTT31D</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>input_token</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_token</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The DER encoded TR-34 token object. The requested action keyword defines the object.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>2PASSRCV</dt>
<dd>This parameter must contain the 2 pass key transport token received from the KDH (KTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>1PASSRCV</dt>
<dd>This parameter must contain the 1 pass key transport token received from the KDH (KTKDH)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_kdh</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KDH for the requested service. The
certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<note>This service is acting as the KDH so the
<i>cred_kdh</i> is not expected to validate against the internal PKI of the adapter.</note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_freshness_indicator_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>input_freshness_indicator</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is
200 bytes. <p>The value is determined by the requested action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>2PASSRCV</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains the length of the random number token received from the KRD
(RTKRD).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>1PASSRCV</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains the length of the ASCII timestamp for use in the key transport token.
The value must be 13 or 15. When TIMENONE is passed, the value must be 0.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_freshness_indicator</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The freshness indicator. When the value of <i>input_freshness_indicator_length</i> is 0,
this parameter is ignored.<p>The meaning is determined by the requested action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>2PASSRCV</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains the DER encoded random number token received from the KRD (RT-KRD).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>1PASSRCV</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains an ASCII timestamp for use in the key transport token. The timestamp is
encoded as a SigningTime object in the token (OID of iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549)
pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) signing-time(5)}, defined in IETF RFC 2985). Two input encodings are accepted for
this parameter, UTCTime encoded as YYMMDDHHMMSSZ (13 bytes) and GeneralizedTime encoded as
YYYYMMDDHHMMSSZ (15 bytes). Date ranges allowed for each format are:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>GeneralizedTime</dt>
<dd>Dates between 1 January 2050 and 31 December 2105 (inclusive).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UTCTime</dt>
<dd>Dates between 1 January 1950 and 31 December 2049 (inclusive).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p><p>There must be an ASCII ‘Z’ character at the end. CCA will verify that timestamps passed
with either encoding are valid timestamps, but will make no attempt to validate the timestamp
against the clock inside the coprocessor.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <synph><var>private_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter. If the
<i>private_key_identifier</i> contains a label, the value must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be
between the actual length of the token and 3500.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The identifier of the private key used to decrypt the key block in the input token. The key
identifier is an operational RSA secure token or the label of such a token in key storage.<p>The key
usage of the token must allow digital signature. Retained private keys are not supported in this
service.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>output_key_identifier</i> parameter, in bytes. On input, it specifies
the length of the buffer for <i>output_key_identifier</i> and must be 64 bytes for DES keys and up
to 725 bytes for AES keys. On output, it will contain the length of the token returned.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The received key token from the TR-34 key block. The output token will be a CCA internal key
token containing the key received in the TR-34 key block.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_freshness_indicator_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>output_freshness_indicator</i> parameter, in bytes. On input, it
specifies the length of the buffer for <i>output_freshness_indicator</i> and must be at least 15
bytes long. On output, it will contain the length of the indicator returned. When the requested
action keyword is 2PASSRCV, the value must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_freshness_indicator</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The output freshness indicator. When the value of <i>output_freshness_indicator_length</i>
is 0, this parameter is ignored.<p>When the requested action keyword is 1PASSRCV, this parameter
contains the ASCII timestamp received in the key transport token received from the KDH. Two
encodings are used for this parameter: UTCTime encoded as YYMMDDHHMMSSZ (13 bytes) and
GeneralizedTime encoded as YYYYMMDDHHMMSSZ (15 bytes). Date ranges allowed for each format are:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>UTCTime</dt>
<dd>Dates between 1 January 1970 and 31 December 2049 (inclusive).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>GeneralizedTime</dt>
<dd>Dates between 1 January 2050 and 31 December 2105 (inclusive).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>There will be an ASCII 'Z' character at the end. ICSF will verify that the timestamp returned
is a valid timestamp from the key transport token received from the KDH (KT-KDH), but makes no
attempt to validate the timestamp against the clock inside the coprocessor.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is reserved. The value must be zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000077566?>
