<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="wskc_pci_hsm_warnevents" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh18i1">
<title>Generating warning events </title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Generating warning events</navtitle>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Generating warning events for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You use the <codeph>CSU_CMP_WARN_MODE</codeph> environment variable to cause <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> to issue warning events for operations that
need modifications to meet <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/> requirements. Warning events are
created as entries to SYSLOG in a certain layout, specifying information about the required
actions.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"
/><indexterm>warnings</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>compliance warnings</indexterm>
<indexterm>warning events<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CSU_CMP_WARN_MODE</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<title>Setting the <codeph>CSU_CMP_WARN_MODE</codeph> environment variable</title>
<p>If set, the <codeph>CSU_CMP_WARN_MODE</codeph> environment variable indicates that you want to
have <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/> warnings
generated. The values can be one of the following:</p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>OFF</dt>
<dd>This is the default value for the variable. No warning mode is set and no warning events are
created.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SYSLOG</dt>
<dd>The warning mode output is sent in a log content stream to the system log and creates an entry
in the SYSLOG file as described in <xref href="#wskc_pci_hsm_warnevents/warning_layout"
format="dita"/>. </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<note>
<ul>
<li>No log entry is written when an operation is completely compliant (compliant verb and compliant
keys).</li>
<li> Warning mode responses are sent to the configured system log.</li>
</ul>
</note>
</section>
<section id="warning_layout">
<title>Warning log message layout</title>
<p>The overall syntax of a generated warning message looks like shown:</p>
<codeblock>
&lt;preamble>CSUCMPW:&lt;serialnum>:&lt;KDF>:&lt;cprbflags>:&lt;verb_code>:&lt;keyword_count>:
                  &lt;keywords>:&lt;key_count>
</codeblock>
<p>The name of the application which causes the triggering of the warning is not displayed
in the message, but is captured by the system log itself. The components have the following meanings:</p>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>preamble</pt>
<pd>Content that a SYSLOG entry typically puts at the start of each message. If the SYSLOG is not
the output target, then no preamble is posted.<p>A part of the preamble posted by the SYSLOG is the
ASCII name of the application that was processing when the warning triggered. See the following
example for details.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>CSUCMPW</pt>
<pd>ASCII eye-catcher to mark the start of each entry</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>serialnum</pt>
<pd>ASCII representation of adapter serial number that generated the reply containing the warning
response.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>KDF</pt>
<pd>Key Derivation Function (KDF) value used in the host-to-card communication buffer. It  
corresponds to the compliance level of the crypto card. This field is one binary byte. 
It is printed as two hexadecimal characters in ASCII.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cprbflags</pt>
<pd>Warning flag value returned from the adapter for the verb. This field is one binary byte. It is
printed as two hexadecimal characters in ASCII.  <dl>
<dlhead>
<dthd>Flag value</dthd>
<ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>0x40</dt>
<dd><codeph>CPRBFO_CMP_BAD_VERB</codeph>: The requested verb is not compliant with the current
target.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>0x20</dt>
<dd><codeph>CPRBFO_CMP_BAD_OP</codeph>: The requested verb (keyword or data) is not compliant with
the current target</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>0x10</dt>
<dd><codeph>CPRBFO_CMP_BAD_KEY</codeph>: The request included one or more keys that are not
compliant with the current target</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>0x08</dt>
<dd><codeph>CPRBFO_CMP_UNK</codeph>: The request for the warning mode processing could not be
honored due to problems with the input. The main reason is an unknown value supplied by the host
library to the adapter as the target KDF: This is an internal error.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="sh20i2">
<dt>0x00</dt>
<dd>No consideration of compliance was made.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>verb_code</pt>
<pd>Name of the verb encoded as two ASCII characters. See column <b>Subcommand code</b> in   <xref
href="wskc_alpha_security_api.dita#alpa_security_api/security_api-codes"/> for the encoding
reference.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>keyword_count</pt>
<pd>ASCII number for the count of verb keywords contained in the request.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>keywords</pt>
<pd> Keywords that were in request when sent to the adapter. Some API calls are split up into
smaller requests when sent to the adapter to overcome bus transfer size limitations. Therefore,
keywords may be slightly different when sent to the adapter. Also, a single API request may generate
more than one warning log entry. <p>If the <parmname>keyword_count</parmname> is 0x00, this field is
empty, such that only the delimiters on either side are visible (<codeph>::</codeph>). </p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>key_count</pt>
<pd>Count of keys that were sent to the adapter.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
<p>Below is a warning message from the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclctt2"/> verb, using a double length DES DATA
token which can not be COMP-TAGGED in compliance mode.</p>
<codeblock scale="90">
Jan 12 09:51:01 test05 s6ctt2.e[24516]: IBM Crypto ./f_secy2/sefcmpwarn.c:627, 
Nov  8 2017:15:02:05: 
CSUCMPW:DV753302:01:10:TT:5:IKEY-DESOKEY-DESI-CBC   O-CBC   INITIAL :2
</codeblock>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>CSUCMPW</dt>
<dd>is the eye-catcher you should search for. All material previous to this ASCII string is the
so-called <parmname>preamble</parmname>. As a part of this preamble, the SYSLOG captures the name of
the application executing when warning triggered. In our example, this is <codeph>s6ctt2.e</codeph>
(running on the <codeph>test05</codeph> system.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>DV753302</dt>
<dd>is the serial number of the adapter that generated the warning. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>01</dt>
<dd>is the compliance level in the card (<parmname>KDF</parmname> parameter).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>10</dt>
<dd>specifies that the request included one or more keys that are not compliant with the current
target (<parmname>cprbflags0</parmname> parameter).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>TT</dt>
<dd> is the verb code for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclctt2"/> as
provided in <xref href="wskc_alpha_security_api.dita#alpa_security_api/security_api-codes"/>
(<parmname>verb-code</parmname> parameter). <codeph>TT</codeph> stands for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclctt2"/>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>5</dt>
<dd> is the number of 8 byte keywords (<parmname>keywordcount</parmname> parameter). </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>IKEY-DESOKEY-DESI-CBC   O-CBC   INITIAL</dt>
<dd>are the five 8 byte keywords provided by the <parmname>keywords</parmname> parameter:<sl
compact="yes">
<sli>IKEY-DES</sli>
<sli>OKEY-DES</sli>
<sli>I-CBC</sli>
<sli>O-CBC</sli>
<sli>INITIAL</sli>
</sl><p>This part can be empty (<codeph>::</codeph>) if no keywords are supplied in the
request.</p><p>Note that sometimes requests are split into smaller requests when sent to the
adapter.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>2</dt>
<dd>is the number of keys supplied to <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclctt2"/> (<parmname>key_count</parmname>
parameter).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>Another example shows how to use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt"/> verb to obtain SHA-1 hashes of master
keys in legacy mode. The warning mode is logging that the requested verb service (keyword or data)
is not compliant with current target:</p>
<codeblock scale="90">
Jan 12 09:49:04 test05 load.e[24427]: IBM Crypto ./f_secy2/sefcmpwarn.c:627, 
Nov  8 2017:15:02:05: CSUCMPW:DV753302:01:20:KT:3:GENERATEKEY-KM  SYM-MK  :1
Jan 12 09:49:04 test05 load.e[24427]: IBM Crypto ./f_secy2/sefcmpwarn.c:627, 
Nov  8 2017:15:02:05: CSUCMPW:DV753302:01:20:KT:3:GENERATEKEY-OKM SYM-MK  :1
Jan 12 09:49:04 test05 load.e[24427]: IBM Crypto ./f_secy2/sefcmpwarn.c:627, 
Nov  8 2017:15:02:05: CSUCMPW:DV753302:01:20:KT:3:GENERATEKEY-KM  APKA-MK :1
Jan 12 09:49:04 test05 load.e[24427]: IBM Crypto ./f_secy2/sefcmpwarn.c:627, 
Nov  8 2017:15:02:05: CSUCMPW:DV753302:01:20:KT:3:GENERATEKEY-OKM APKA-MK :1
</codeblock>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000002516?>
