<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference id="l0wskc02_appdpinnot" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>PIN notation</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>PIN notation</navtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): PIN notation</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The content of PIN blocks are assigned a letter
that represents the content. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>PIN notation</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The following notations describe the contents of PIN blocks:
 <dl><dlentry>
<dt>P =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit decimal digit that is one digit of the PIN value.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>C =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal control value. The valid values are <ph>X'0'</ph>, <ph>X'1'</ph>,
and <ph>X'2'</ph>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>L =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal value that specifies the number of PIN digits.
This value is in the range 4 - 12.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>F =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit field delimiter of value <ph>X'F'</ph>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>f =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit delimiter filler that is either P or F, depending on the
length of the PIN.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>D =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit decimal padding value. All pad digits in the PIN block
have the same value.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>X =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal padding value. All pad digits in the PIN block
have the same value.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>x =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal filler that is either P or X, depending on
the length of the PIN.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>R =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal random digit. The sequence of R digits can
each take a different value.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>r =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit random filler that is either P or R, depending on the
length of the PIN.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Z =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal zero (<ph>X'0'</ph>).</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>z =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit zero filler that is either P or Z, depending on the length
of the PIN.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>S =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit hexadecimal digit that constitutes one digit of a sequence number.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="sh20i1">
<dt>U =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit decimal digit that constitutes one digit of a user-specified constant.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>A =</dt>
<dd>A 4-bit decimal digit that constitutes one digit of a user-specified
constant.</dd>
</dlentry>
 <dlentry rev="sh20i1">
 <dt>a =</dt>
 <dd>A 4-bit value that is either P or A, depending on the length of the PIN.</dd>
 </dlentry></dl></p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000002403?>
