<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_epg1parameters">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_generating_key_identifier<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>outbound_PIN_encrypting_key_identifier<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>GBP-PIN</indexterm>
<indexterm>IBM-PIN</indexterm>
<indexterm>INBK-PIN</indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_length<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"
/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>data_array<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"
/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_profile<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"
/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PAN_data<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/>
verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>sequence_number<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>encrypted_PIN_block<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>PIN_generating_key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The 64-byte internal key token or a key label of an internal key token in the <ph>DES key
storage file</ph>. The internal key token contains the PIN-generating key. The control vector must
specify the <synph><kwd>PINGEN</kwd></synph> key type and have the EPINGEN usage bit set to
<ph>B'1'</ph>.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>outbound_PIN_encrypting_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p rev="sh21i1">The identifier of the key to encrypt the PIN block. The key identifier is an operational token or the key
label of an operational token in key storage. The key may be a DES key (all PIN block formats except
ISO-4) or an AES key (PIN block format ISO-4).</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES keys, the control vector in the fixed-length token must specify an OPINENC key type with
EPINGEN usage bit set to 1.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES keys, the variable-length symmetric key token must have a token algorithm of AES and a key
type of PINPROT. In addition, the key usage fields may indicate that the key can be used for
encryption (ENCRYPT), the encryption mode must be Cipher Block Chaining (CBC), common usage
control must be NOFLDFMT, PIN block format usage must be ISO-4, and PIN function usage EPINGEN
must be enabled.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the <i>rule_array</i>
variable. This value must be 1.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Keywords that provide control information to the <ph>verb</ph>. Each keyword is left-aligned
in an 8-byte field and padded on the right with blanks. All keywords must be in contiguous storage.
The <i>rule_array</i> keywords are described in <xref
href="#l0wskc02_epg1parameters/l0wskc02_epg1_tab1"/>.<table id="l0wskc02_epg1_tab1" pgwide="1"
frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="16*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Processing rule</i></b> (One, required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>GBP-PIN</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>This keyword specifies the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm> German Bank Pool Institution PIN calculation method is to be used to generate a
PIN.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>IBM-PIN</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>This keyword specifies the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm> 3624 PIN calculation method is to be used to generate a PIN.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>INBK-PIN</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>This keyword specifies the Interbank PIN calculation method is to
be used to generate a PIN.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PIN_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>An integer defining the PIN length for those PIN calculation methods with variable length
PINs. Otherwise, the variable should be set to zero.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>data_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Three 16-byte character strings, which are equivalent to a single 48-byte string. The values
in the data array depend on the keyword for the PIN calculation method. Each element is not always
used, but you must always declare a complete data array. The numeric characters in each 16-byte
string must be from 1 - 16 bytes in length, uppercase, left-aligned, and padded on the right with
space characters. <xref href="#l0wskc02_epg1parameters/l0wskc02_el5"/> describes the array
elements.<table id="l0wskc02_el5" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Array elements for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/>
data_array parameter</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Array elements for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/>
<i>data_array</i> parameter</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="10*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="35*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Array element</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Decimalization_table</entry>
<entry>Decimalization table for <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm>
and GBP only. Sixteen characters that are used to map the hexadecimal digits (<ph>X'0'</ph> -
<ph>X'F'</ph>) of the encrypted validation data to decimal digits (<ph>X'0'</ph> - <ph>X'9'</ph>).
<p>If the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Use stored decimalization tables only</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'0356'</ph>) access control point is enabled in the active role, this table must match one of
the active decimalization tables in the coprocessors.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Trans_sec_parm</entry>
<entry>For Interbank only, sixteen digits. Eleven rightmost digits of the
personal account number (PAN). A constant of 6. One digit key selector index. Three digits of PIN
validation data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Validation_data</entry>
<entry>Validation data for <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> and
<tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> German Bank Pool padded to 16 bytes. 1 - 16 characters of
hexadecimal account data left-aligned and padded on the right with blanks.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p><xref href="#l0wskc02_epg1parameters/l0wskc02_proapa5"/> lists the data array elements
required by the process rule (<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameter). The numbers refer to
the process rule's position within the array. </p><table id="l0wskc02_proapa5" pgwide="0"
frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="4" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="108*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="60*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="60*"/>
<colspec colname="col7" colwidth="60*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Process rule</entry>
<entry>IBM-PIN</entry>
<entry>GBP-PIN</entry>
<entry>INBK-PIN </entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Decimalization_table</entry>
<entry align="center">1</entry>
<entry align="center">1</entry>
<entry></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Validation_data</entry>
<entry align="center">2</entry>
<entry align="center">2</entry>
<entry></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Trans_sec_parm</entry>
<entry></entry>
<entry></entry>
<entry align="center">1 </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PIN_profile</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A 24-byte string containing the PIN profile including the PIN block format. See <xref
href="wskc_c_pinppp.dita#l0wskc02_pinppp"/> for additional information.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PAN_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p rev="sh21i1">A primary account number (PAN) in character format. The service uses this parameter if the PIN
profile specifies the ISO-0, ISO-3, ISO-4, or VISA-4 keyword for the PIN block format. Otherwise,
ensure that this parameter is a 12-byte value in application storage. The information in this parameter
is ignored, but the parameter must be specified.
</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the ISO-0, ISO-3, or VISA-4 keyword, the value is 12 bytes long. Use the 12 rightmost
digits of the PAN data, excluding the check digit.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the ISO-4 keyword, the value is 21 bytes long. The PAN data is 10 – 19
bytes long. The length of the PAN data and the PAN data are contained in the structure shown in
<xref href="#l0wskc02_epg1parameters/pan_data_structure" format="dita"/>.</p>
<table id="pan_data_structure" pgwide="0" frame="all" rev="sh21i1"><title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"/> PAN data structure</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"/> PAN
data structure showing offset, length and a description</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset</entry>
<entry>Length</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Length of the PAN data field, p.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>p</entry>
<entry>10 to 19 bytes of PAN data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2+p</entry>
<entry>0-9</entry>
<entry>Padding to 21 bytes with characters that are ignored.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>sequence_number</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The 4-byte string that contains the sequence number used by certain PIN block formats. The
verb uses this parameter if the PIN profile specifies the 3621 or <synph><kwd>4704-EPP</kwd></synph>
keyword for the PIN block format. Otherwise, ensure this parameter is a 4-byte variable in
application data storage. The information in the variable will be ignored, but the variable must be
declared. To enter a sequence number, do the following: <ul>
<li>Enter 99999 to use a random sequence number that the service generates.</li>
<li>For the 3621 PIN block format, enter a value in the range from 0 - 65,535.</li>
<li>For the 4704-EPP PIN block format, enter a value in the range from 0 - 255.</li>
</ul></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p rev="sh21i1">The field that receives the 8-byte or 16-byte encrypted PIN block. 
When the PIN block format is ISO-4, the PIN block is 16 bytes long. 
For all other formats, the PIN block is 8 bytes long.</p></pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
