<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_x509_certificates" rev="sh20i1">
<title>X.509 certificates</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>X.509 certificates</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): X.509 certificates</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>An X.509 certificate couples an identity to an RSA or ECC public key. This certificate
can be used in PKA services in lieu of a PKA public key token. An X.509 certificate may only be used
in verbs consistent with its usage attributes.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>X.509 certificates<indexterm>PKA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA cryptography<indexterm>X.509 certificates</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<note>Only the 31-bit verbs are listed, but this also applies to the 64-bit equivalent
services.</note>
<ul>
<li>digitalSignature -- Verbs: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"
/>.</li>
<li>nonRepudiation -- Verbs: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"
/>.</li>
<li>keyEncipherment -- Verbs: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyg"/>,
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpke"/>.</li>
<li>dataEncipherment -- Verbs: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpke"
/>. </li>
<li>keyAgreement -- Verbs: None.</li>
<li>keyCertSign -- Verbs: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"
/>.</li>
<li>cRLSign -- Verbs: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"/>.</li>
<li>encipherOnly -- Verbs: N/A.</li>
<li>decipherOnly -- Verbs: N/A.</li>
</ul>
<p>Certificates may also be used in the ANSI TR-34 verbs (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34b"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34d"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/>). See the verb descriptions for
information on what usage is required, if any, for each input certificate. If no key usage attribute
is present in the certificate, the certificate may be used in any service. </p>
<p>One way to create a certificate with specific key usage attributes is to use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpic"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpic"/>) callable service to create a
certificate signing request (CSR) with the desired key usage attributes. This CSR can then be signed
by a Certificate Authority (CA) to create a certificate with the desired key usage attributes.</p>
<p>When using operational certificates that are to be validated against an issuer CA root
certificate, the root certificate of the issuer CA must be loaded on all CEX6C and higher
coprocessors using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/tke_only"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>) workstation before the
operational certificate can be used successfully.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
