<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_crdparameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameter definitions for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"></keyword>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcrd"></keyword>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>HCPUACLR</indexterm><indexterm>HCPUAPRT</indexterm>
<indexterm>CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER</indexterm><indexterm>environment variable<indexterm>CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>resource_name_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>resource_name parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref
href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"></xref>.</p></section>
<section> <parml><plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. This value must be 1.</pd>
</plentry><plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter is a pointer to a string variable containing
an array of keywords. The keywords are eight bytes in length and must be left-aligned and padded on
the right with space characters. The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> keyword is described in <xref
href="#l0wskc02_crdparameters/l0wskc02_crd_ra"/>. <table frame="all" id="l0wskc02_crd_ra" pgwide="0">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcrd"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="12*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>Cryptographic resource</i> (Required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>DEVICE</b></entry>
<entry rev="sh20i1">Specifies a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"
/> coprocessor by resource number. The <parmname>resource_name</parmname> variable must point to a
buffer containing "CRPxx" where 'xx' is the decimal number of the resource from '01' to '64', with 3
spaces (hexadecimal 0x20 value) at the end. Note that the <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utility shows
the card numbers starting from 0, and the resource number is obtained by adding '1' to the card
number.<p><b>Example:</b> To specify card number 5 as identified by <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>,
use resource number 6. The user of CSUACRD:"DEVICE " will set<parmname> resource_name</parmname> to
<codeph>"CRP06   "</codeph>, and <parmname>resource_name_length</parmname> to 8.</p></entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>SERIAL</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/>
coprocessor by serial number. The <parmname>resource_name</parmname> variable must point to a buffer
containing "xxxxxxxx", the 8 character serial number as shown by the <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>
utility or returned by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>
verb. Note that the <cmdname>panel.exe -x</cmdname> command shows the card serial number in this
format: 'SER [xxxxxxxx]', along with other output. <p><b>Example:</b> The serial number is shown by
the command <cmdname>panel.exe -x</cmdname> to be <codeph>xx1234xx</codeph>, as part of this output:
<codeblock>CARD [0: CEX5C] SER [xx1234xx] CCA Vers:Date ....</codeblock> The user of CSUACRD:"SERIAL
" will set <parmname>resource_name</parmname> to <codeph>xx1234xx</codeph>, and
<parmname>resource_name_length</parmname> to 8.</p></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>DEV-ANY</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Specifies to disable the AUTOSELECT option. Verbs will now all use the default
adapter or a previously configured "selected" adapter as chosen via CSUACRA. See <xref
href="wskc_c_multico.dita#l0wskc02_multico"/> for more information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>HCPUACLR</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of host CPU assist for clear keys. This keyword enables clear key use of
the CPACF, for clear key AES encryption and decryption with hash algorithms: SHA-1, SHA-224,
SHA-256, SHA-384, and SHA-512. This is the default state at the time of the first use of the CCA
library by a PID or TID.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>HCPUAPRT</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of host CPU assist for protected keys. This keyword disables
protected key use of the CPACF for protected key AES and DES, TDES, and MAC. This is the default
state at the time of the first use of the CCA library by a PID or TID.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>Domain selection.</i> (One, optional)</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>DOMN-DEF</b></entry>
<entry>This keyword specifies to return to using the domain value from other sources for the card 
specified with this thread. The CCA library returns to using the domain specified in the environment variable 
CSU_DEFAULT_DOMAIN, or if none is specified, then the domain used is the domain given by the ap device driver.
This keyword may be combined with <b>SERIAL</b> or <b>DEVICE</b>.</entry>
</row>

</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>There is an environment variable that also impacts the default card: CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER
(see <xref href="wskc_c_multico.dita#l0wskc02_multico"/>). There are also environment variables that
influence CPACF support (see <xref href="wskc_c_cpacf_conopt_envar.dita#l0wskc02_cpacf_conopt_envar"
/>).</p><p>The actual hardware configuration determines what features are available, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> uses what exists if the user sets these
values as desired, with respect to appropriate defaults.</p></pd>
</plentry><plentry>
<pt>resource_name_length</pt>
<pd> <table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2"
rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <synph><var>resource_name_length</var></synph> parameter
is a pointer to an integer variable containing the number of bytes
of data in the <i>resource_name</i> variable. The length must be 1
- 64. </pd>
</plentry><plentry>
<pt>resource_name</pt>
<pd> <table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2"
rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <synph><var>resource_name</var></synph> parameter
is a pointer to a string variable containing the name of the coprocessor
to be deallocated. </pd>
</plentry></parml></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000005687?>
