<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_pbf">
<title>PIN block format</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>PIN block format</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): PIN block format</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>This keyword specifies the format of the PIN block. The 8-byte
value must be left-aligned and padded with blanks. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>PIN block format<indexterm>values</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ISO-0 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>ISO-1 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>ISO-2 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>ISO-3 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>ISO-4 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>VISA-2 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>VISA-3 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>VISA-4 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>4704-EPP PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>3624 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>3621 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>ECI-2 PIN block format</indexterm>
<indexterm>ECI-3 PIN block format</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Refer to <xref href="#l0wskc02_pbf/l0wskc02_pincpa"/> for a list of valid values. </p>
<table id="l0wskc02_pincpa" pgwide="0" frame="all">
<title>Format values
of PIN blocks</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Format values of PIN blocks</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="7*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="16*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Format value</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>ECI-2</entry>
<entry>Eurocheque International format 2</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>ECI-3</entry>
<entry>Eurocheque International format 3</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-0</entry>
<entry>ISO format 0, ANSI X9.8, VISA 1,
and ECI 1</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-1</entry>
<entry>ISO format 1 and ECI 4</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-2</entry>
<entry>ISO format 2</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-3</entry>
<entry>ISO format 3</entry></row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry>ISO-4</entry>
<entry>ISO format 4</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>VISA-2</entry>
<entry>VISA format 2</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>VISA-3</entry>
<entry>VISA format 3</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>VISA-4</entry>
<entry>VISA format 4</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>3621</entry>
<entry><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3621
and 5906</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>3624</entry>
<entry><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4704-EPP</entry>
<entry><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 4704
encrypting PIN pad</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<section id="pbfandpem"><title>PIN extraction methods</title><indexterm>PIN block
format<indexterm>PIN extraction method keywords</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>PINLEN04 PIN
extraction method keyword</indexterm><indexterm>PINBLOCK PIN extraction method
keyword</indexterm><indexterm>PADDIGIT PIN extraction method keyword</indexterm><indexterm>HEXDIGIT
PIN extraction method keyword</indexterm><indexterm>PINLEN12 PIN extraction method
keyword</indexterm><indexterm>PADEXIST PIN extraction method keyword</indexterm>
<p rev="sh21i1">Before a verb can process a formatted and encrypted PIN, the verb must decrypt the
PIN block and extract the PIN from the PIN block. The PIN verbs can use multiple PIN-extraction
methods. The valid PIN-extraction method depends on the PIN-block format. You can specify a
PIN-extraction method or use the default method for the PIN-block format. To specify a
PIN-extraction method, use a keyword in the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable for the verb.
<xref href="#l0wskc02_pbf/l0wskc02_newtb2" format="dita"/> shows the keywords for the PIN-extraction
methods that are valid for each PIN-block format. When only one PIN-extraction method is valid, the
keyword is the default value. When more than one method is valid, the first keyword is the default
value.</p>
<p>You can specify a PIN extraction keyword for a given PIN-block format in the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/>, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/> verbs.</p>
<table id="l0wskc02_newtb2" pgwide="1" frame="all"><title>PIN block format and PIN extraction method
keywords</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">PIN block format and PIN extraction method keywords</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="12*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>PIN block format</entry>
<entry>PIN extraction method keywords</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>ECI-2</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINLEN04</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINLEN04
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ECI-3</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-0</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-1</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-2</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ISO-3</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VISA-2</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VISA-3</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VISA-4</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3621</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>HEXDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PINLEN04</kwd></synph> - <synph><kwd>PINLEN12</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PADEXIST</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for an <tm trademark="IBM"
tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3621 PIN block format. The first keyword, <synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
is the default PIN extraction method for the PIN block format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>3624</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>HEXDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PINLEN04</kwd></synph> - <synph><kwd>PINLEN16</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PADEXIST</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for an <tm trademark="IBM"
tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624 PIN block format. The first keyword, <synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
is the default PIN extraction method for the PIN block format.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>4704-EPP</entry>
<entry><synph><kwd>PINBLOCK</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>The PIN extraction method keywords specify a PIN extraction method for a PINBLOCK
format.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table><p>The PIN extraction methods operate as follows: <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>PINBLOCK</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the service verb use one of these: <ul compact="yes">
<li>The PIN length, if the PIN block contains a PIN length field</li>
<li>The PIN delimiter character, if the PIN block contains a PIN delimiter character.</li>
</ul></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PADDIGIT</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the pad value in the PIN profile to identify the end of the
PIN.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>HEXDIGIT</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the first occurrence of a digit in the range from <ph>X'A'</ph> to
<ph>X'F'</ph> as the pad value to determine the PIN length</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PINLEN<synph><var>nn</var></synph></dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the length specified in the keyword, where
<synph><var>nn</var></synph> can range from 04 - 16, the number of digits used to identify the
PIN.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PADEXIST</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the character in the 16th position of the PIN block as the value of
the pad value.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></section>
<section><title>Enhanced PIN security mode</title><indexterm>PIN security
mode</indexterm><indexterm>enhanced PIN security mode</indexterm><p>An enhanced PIN security mode is
available. This optional mode is selected by enabling the <cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname>
(offset X'0313') access control point in the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> default role.</p><p>When active, this
control point affects all PIN verbs that extract or format a PIN using a PIN-block format of IBM
3624 with a PIN-extraction method of <synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph> .</p><p><xref
href="#l0wskc02_pbf/l0wsck02_epsm_tab1" format="dita"/> summarizes the verbs affected by the
enhanced PIN security mode, and describes the effect that the mode has when the access control point
is enabled. </p><table id="l0wsck02_epsm_tab1" pgwide="1">
<title rev="sh18i2">Verbs affected when the enhanced PIN security mode is enabled</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Verbs affected when the enhanced PIN security mode is enabled</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="7*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>PIN-block format and PIN-extraction method</entry>
<entry>Affected verbs</entry>
<entry>PIN processing changes when Enhanced PIN Security Mode enabled</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>ECI-2, 3621, or 3624 formats AND <b>PINLEN<synph><var>nn</var></synph></b></entry>
<entry>
<lines>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/>
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>The <b>PINLEN<synph><var>nn</var></synph></b> keyword in the
<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameter for PIN extraction method is not allowed if the
Enhanced PIN Security Mode is enabled. <note>The verb will fail with return code 8 and reason code
<ph>X'7E0'</ph>.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry rev="sh18i2">IBM 3624 format and <synph><kwd>HEXDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>PADEXIST</kwd></synph>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/>
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>PIN extraction determines the PIN length by scanning from right to left until a digit, not
equal to the PAD digit, is found. The minimum PIN length is set at four digits, so scanning ceases
one digit past the position of the fourth PIN digit in the block.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry rev="sh18i2">IBM 3624 format and <synph><kwd>HEXDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>PADEXIST</kwd></synph>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/>
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>PIN formatting does not examine the PIN in the output PIN block to see if it contains the
PAD digit.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry rev="sh18i2">IBM 3624 format and <synph><kwd>HEXDIGIT</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>, or <synph><kwd>PADEXIST</kwd></synph>
</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/></entry>
<entry>Restricted to non-decimal digit for <synph><kwd>PADDIGIT</kwd></synph>.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section rev="sh21i1" id="pan_number"><title>Primary account number</title><indexterm>Primary account
number<indexterm>PAN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>PAN<indexterm>Primary account
number</indexterm></indexterm>
<p>A primary account number (PAN) identifies an individual and associates that individual to an account at
the financial institution. The PAN consists of the following data:</p>
<ul>
<li>Issuer identification number</li>
<li>Customer account number</li>
<li>One check digit</li>
</ul>
<p>For the ISO-0, ISO-3, and ISO-4 PIN-block formats, the PIN verbs use a PAN
to format and extract a PIN. You specify the PAN with a parameter for the verb. Each digit in the
PAN must be from 0 – 9. You must specify the PAN in character format.</p>
<p>For ISO-0 and ISO-3, specify the PAN in a 12-byte field. The actual PAN might be more than 12 digits, but
the PIN verbs use only 12 digits for the PAN. Depending on the PIN-block format, the verbs use the
rightmost 12 digits or the leftmost 12 digits.
</p>
<p>For the ISO-4 format, the verbs use all the digits of the PAN including the check digit.
Note: When using the ISO-0 or ISO-3 PIN-block format, use the rightmost 12 digits of the PAN, excluding
the check digit. When using the ISO-4 PIN-block format, use all digits of the PAN, including the check
digit.</p></section>
</conbody></concept>
