<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="ukdusage">
<title>Usage notes</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Usage notes</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Usage notes for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The usage notes for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/>)<indexterm>usage
notes</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p rev="sh20i1">The DUKPT key derivation process of the ANS X9.24 standard defines methods for
deriving keys for these separate purposes:<ol compact="yes">
<li>PIN encryption – PIN encryption and decryption</li>
<li>Message authentication (MAC) – MAC generation and MAC verification</li>
<li>Data encryption – data encryption and data decryption</li>
</ol></p>
<p rev="sh20i1">These separate variations of the DUKPT key derivation process provide key separation
between the keys derived for PIN purposes, message authentication, and data encryption purposes.
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/> can produce from one to three
derived keys, up to one for each variation depending on the desired key purpose, in operational DES
key tokens. The combination of key tokens for these three purposes is based on the specified output
key selection rule array keywords.</p>
<p rev="sh20i1">The verb can optionally produce an external initial PIN encryption key (IPEK),
either in a non-CCA key-token or TR-31 key block, TDES-wrapped using the key identified by the
<parmname>transport_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. The IPEK is created by taking the base
derivation key and encrypting the 59-bit initial key serial number that is contained within the
derivation data (the same value that was loaded when the PIN keypad was initialized).</p>
<p rev="sh20i1"> The DUKPT key derivation process that is defined in the ANS X9.24 standard
describes the use of the derived keys in terms of a <i>terminal</i>, which sends <i>requests</i>,
and a <i>host</i>, which processes those requests and sends <i>responses</i>.</p>
<p rev="sh20i1">Beginning with Release 5.5, two direction or initiation rule-array keyword groups
are added, one group for deriving MAC keys, and the other group for deriving data encryption keys.
The use of these keywords is to specify the purpose of the key (MAC or data encryption) and whether
the key is to be used to send or receive a request or to send or receive a response.</p>
<p rev="sh20i1">When a key is derived, it must be understood whether that key is used as a
terminal-side key (term) or a host-side key (host). The key usage provided in the skeleton key token
(for example, a MACVER key usage of MAC verify) determines the key usage for the derived key. In
cases where DUKPT produces different key usages for the terminal and host keys, the correct usage
must be chosen as shown in <xref href="#ukdusage/dukpt_key_var" format="dita"/>. The table also
shows the key variant that is used in the derivation process for each DUKPT key usage.<table
frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="dukpt_key_var" rev="sh20i1"><title>DUKPT key variants for
derived keys</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Derivation variants, a table with three columns, describing the DUKPT
usage, the DUKPT derivation variant, the Direction or initiation keyword and the CCA key type (key
usage).</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.4*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.3*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.0*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.3*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry>DUKPT key usage description</entry>
<entry>DUKPT variant (hexadecimal)</entry>
<entry>Direction or initiation keyword</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key type (key
usage)</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>
<lines>PIN encryption</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines><synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 00 00 00 FF</kwd></synph>
<synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 00 00 00 FF</kwd></synph></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>N/A</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>DATA
IPINENC
OPINENC
</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1">
<lines>Message authentication, request or both ways</lines>
</entry>
<entry morerows="1">
<lines><synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 00 00 FF 00</kwd></synph>
<synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 00 00 FF 00</kwd></synph></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>No direction keyword</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>MAC
MAC (GENONLY)</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines><b>REQ-MAC</b></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>MAC</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="2">
<lines>Message authentication, response</lines>
</entry>
<entry morerows="2">
<lines><synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 FF 00 00 00</kwd></synph>
<synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 FF 00 00 00</kwd></synph></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>No direction keyword</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>MACVER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines><b>RSP-MAC</b> (term)</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>MACVER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines><b>RSP-MAC</b> (host)</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>MAC (GENONLY)</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1">
<lines>Data encryption, request or both ways</lines>
</entry>
<entry morerows="1">
<lines><synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 00 FF 00 00</kwd></synph>
<synph><kwd>00 00 00 00 00 FF 00 00</kwd></synph></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>No direction keyword</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>CIPHER
ENCIPHER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines><b>REQ-ENC</b></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>CIPHER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="2">
<lines>Data encryption, response</lines>
</entry>
<entry morerows="2">
<lines><synph><kwd>00 00 00 FF 00 00 00 00</kwd></synph>
<synph><kwd>00 00 00 FF 00 00 00 00</kwd></synph></lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>No direction keyword</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>DECIPHER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines><b>RSP-ENC</b> (term)</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>DECIPHER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines><b>RSP-ENC</b> (host)</lines>
</entry>
<entry>
<lines>ENCIPHER</lines>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c4">
<note>A default DES MAC key has usage of generate and verify. The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktb"/> verb can be used to build a skeleton
DES MAC key that has usage of <apiname>generate only</apiname> (MAC-GENONLY). Call the verb by
specifying keywords INTERNAL, DES, DOUBLE or DOUBLE-O, and CV, and use this 16-byte value for the
<parmname>control_vector</parmname> variable: X'0005480003410000 0005480003210000'.</note>
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table></p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
