<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<!--HW: Acrolinx run on May 13, 2015-->
<reference id="ccatok_init" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Initializing the token</title><?Pub Caret -2?>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Initializing the token</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Initializing the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/> for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> on <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>After the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword> library
and the global configuration file are set up and the <cmdname>pkcsslotd</cmdname> daemon
is started, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"></keyword> must
be initialized. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>pkcsconf</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword><indexterm>SO
PIN</indexterm><indexterm>standard PIN</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>security officer (SO)<indexterm>login PIN</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>SO<indexterm>login PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>standard user (User)<indexterm>login PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>User<indexterm>login PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>PIN</indexterm><indexterm>login PIN</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>                         <p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pkcs11"/>
defines two users for each token: a security officer (SO) whose responsibility is the administration
of the token, and a standard user (User) who wants to use the token to perform cryptographic
operations. <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> requires that for
both the SO and the User a login PIN is defined as part of the token initialization.</p><p>The following command provides
some useful slot information:<screen># pkcsconf -s
Slot #1 Info
        Description: OCK ICA Token
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Flags: 0x1 (TOKEN_PRESENT)
        Hardware Version: 0.0
        Firmware Version: 0.0
Slot #2 Info
        Description: OCK CCA Token
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Flags: 0x1 (TOKEN_PRESENT)
        Hardware Version: 0.0
        Firmware Version: 0.0
Slot #3 Info
        Description: Software Token
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Flags: 0x1 (TOKEN_PRESENT)
        Hardware Version: 0.0
        Firmware Version: 0.0</screen></p><p>Find your preferred token
in the details list and select the correct slot number. This number
is used in the next initialization steps to identify your        
                        token:<screen>
$ pkcsconf -I -c &lt;slot> // Initialize the Token and setup a Token Label

$ pkcsconf -P -c &lt;slot> // change the SO PIN (recommended)

$ pkcsconf -u -c &lt;slot> // Initialize the User PIN (SO PIN required)

$ pkcsconf -p -c &lt;slot> // change the User PIN (optional)</screen></p> 
                       <dl><dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -I</codeph></dt>
<dd>During token initialization, you are asked for a token label.
Provide a meaningful name that helps you later to identify the token.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -P</codeph></dt>
<dd><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> security practices require that you
change the default SO PIN (<codeph>87654321</codeph>) to a different value. Use the <codeph>pkcsconf
-P</codeph> option to change the SO PIN.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -u</codeph></dt>
<dd>When you enter the user PIN initialization, you are asked for the newly set SO PIN. The length
of the user PIN must be 4 - 8 characters.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -p</codeph></dt>
<dd><ph><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> security practices
require that you change the user PIN at least once with <codeph>pkcsconf -p</codeph> option.</ph>
The length of the user PIN must be 4 - 8 characters. After you completed the PIN setup, the token is
prepared and ready for use.<note>Specify a user PIN that is different from
<userinput>12345678</userinput> because this pattern is checked internally and marked as default
PIN. A login attempt with this user PIN is recognized as <term>not initialized</term>. </note></dd>
</dlentry></dl></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000004998?>
