<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="ddk_main" rev="hw20i1">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/> verb to
selectively generate and derive a pair of associated keys in connection with a <term>directed key
diversification</term> key scheme.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p> The objective of the concept is to generate and derive a key pair with different key usages from
one key diversification key (KDK). Key direction comes into play in that one of the keys is
generated and will be used for one direction (that is, encryption, MAC generate, and so forth),
while the other key will be derived and will have usage associated with a different direction
(decryption, MAC verification, and so forth). This verb provides an option to perform the generate
or derive operation.</p>
<p>A structure called a <term>key type vector</term>, which is always used as the initialization
vector for the diversification process, is provided as input and is used to determine what for and
how the key is produced by this verb. For the format of key type vectors, see <xref
href="wskc_keytvec.dita"/>.</p>
<p>The key generated by this verb is used as a session key. The intention is that the keys of a
generated and derived key pair are one-time keys. The key management fields of the output key
indicate that the key cannot be exported.</p>
<note rev="sh20i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</note>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>