<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_notices">
<title>Notices</title><shortdesc>This information was developed for products and services offered in the USA.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>Notices</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> may not offer the products,
services, or features discussed in this document in other countries.
Consult your local <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> representative
for information on the products and services currently available in
your area. Any reference to an <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> product,
program, or service is not intended to state or imply that only that <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> product, program, or service
may be used. Any functionally equivalent product, program, or service
that does not infringe any <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> intellectual
property right may be used instead. However, it is the user's responsibility
to evaluate and verify the operation of any non-IBM product, program,
or service.</p>
<p><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> may have patents or pending
patent applications covering subject matter described in this document.
The furnishing of this document does not give you any license to these
patents. You can send license inquiries, in writing, to: <lines><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> Director of Licensing
IBM Corporation
North Castle Drive
Armonk, NY  10504-1785
USA</lines></p>
<p>For license inquiries regarding double-byte character set (DBCS)
information, contact the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> Intellectual
Property Department in your country or send inquiries, in writing,
to:<lines><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> World Trade Asia Corporation
Intellectual Property Licensing
Legal and Intellectual Property Law
IBM Japan Ltd.
1623-14, Shimotsuruma, Yamato-shi
Kanagawa 242-8502 Japan</lines></p>
<p><b>The following paragraph does not apply to the
United Kingdom or any other country where such provisions are inconsistent
with local law:</b> INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES
THIS PUBLICATION <q>AS IS</q> WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties
in certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to
you.</p>
<p>This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical
errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these
changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> may make improvements and/or
changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s) described in this
publication at any time without notice.</p>
<p>Any references in this information to non-IBM Web sites are provided
for convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement
of those Web sites. The materials at those Web sites are not part
of the materials for this <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> product
and use of those Web sites is at your own risk.</p>
<p><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> may use or distribute
any of the information you supply in any way it believes appropriate
without incurring any obligation to you.</p>
<p>Licensees of this program who wish to have information about it
for the purpose of enabling: (i) the exchange of information between
independently created programs and other programs (including this
one) and (ii) the mutual use of the information which has been exchanged,
should contact: <lines><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> Corporation
Mail Station P300
2455 South Road
Poughkeepsie, NY 12601-5400
USA</lines></p>
<p>Such information may be available, subject to appropriate terms
and conditions, including in some cases, payment of a fee.</p>
<p>The licensed program described in this information and all licensed
material available for it are provided by <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> under terms of the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> Customer
Agreement, <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> International
Program License Agreement, or any equivalent agreement between us.</p>
<p>Information concerning non-IBM products was obtained from the suppliers
of those products, their published announcements or other publicly
available sources. <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> has not
tested those products and cannot confirm the accuracy of performance,
compatibility or any other claims related to non-IBM products. Questions
on the capabilities of non-IBM products should be addressed to the
suppliers of those products.</p>
<p>This information contains examples of data and reports used in
daily business operations. To illustrate them as completely as possible,
the examples include the names of individuals, companies, brands,
and products. All of these names are fictitious and any similarity
to the names and addresses used by an actual business enterprise is
entirely coincidental.</p>
<p>COPYRIGHT LICENSE: This information contains sample application
programs in source language, which illustrate programming techniques
on various operating platforms. You may copy, modify, and distribute
these sample programs in any form without payment to <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm>, for the purposes of developing, using, marketing
or distributing application programs conforming to the application
programming interface for the operating platform for which the sample
programs are written. These examples have not been thoroughly tested
under all conditions. <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm>, therefore,
cannot guarantee or imply reliability, serviceability, or function
of these programs. The sample programs are provided "AS IS", without
warranty of any kind. <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> shall
not be liable for any damages arising out of your use of the sample
programs.</p>
<p>If you are viewing this information softcopy, the photographs and
color illustrations may not appear.</p>
</conbody></concept>