<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="Dcsfb4-gen392_parameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34d"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameter definitions for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34d"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34d"/>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34d"
/></indexterm><indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34d"
/><indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>,
<synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>, and
<synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"
/>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The number of keywords you supplied in the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter. 
The value must be in the range 5 - 8.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Direction</entry>
<entry>Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Input</entry>
<entry>Character</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> contains keywords that provide control information to the callable service.
The keywords must be in contiguous storage with each of the keywords left-justified in its own
8-byte location and padded on the right with blanks.</p>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" pgwide="1"><title>Keywords for TR-34
Key Distribution</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for TR-34 Key Distribution. This table contains two columns:
Keyword and Meaning, and it contains rows for Requested action (one, required), Public Key
Infrastructure Usage (one, optional), Source key algorithm (one, required), and Key block version
(one required).</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="2.7*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Requested action (one, required).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2PASSCRE</entry>
<entry>TR34 Key Transport (2-pass) KTKDH CREATE service.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>1PASSCRE</entry>
<entry>TR34 Key Transport (1-pass) KTKDH CREATE service.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Public Key Infrastructure Usage (one,
optional).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-CHK</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is to be validated against the
trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This requires that the CA credentials have been
installed using the Trusted Key Entry (TKE) workstation. This is required for compliance-tagged key
token export with TR-34 services.<p>This is the default.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-NONE</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is not to be validated against
the trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This is suitable if the certificate has been
validated using host-based PKI services.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Source key algorithm (one, required).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>SKEY-DES</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the <parmname>source_key_identifer</parmname> is a DES key. If the
<i>source_key_identifier</i> is external then the <parmname>unwrap_kek_identifier</parmname> 
is also a DES key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>SKEY-AES</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the <parmname>source_key_identifer</parmname> is an AES key. 
If the <parmname>source_key_identifier</parmname> is external then the 
<parmname>unwrap_kek_identifier</parmname> is also an AES key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>Key block version (one, required).</i></b> Specifies which
version of the TR-31 key block to use. However, this value has no impact to the wrapping of the
TR-34 key block or format of the key block. Choose this value for compatibility with the target
KRD.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VARXOR-A</entry>
<entry>Specifies to use TR-31 Key Block Version ID of "A" (X'41'). This is typically a DES
version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VARDRV-B</entry>
<entry>Specifies to use TR-31 Key Block Version ID of "B" (X'42'). This is typically a DES
version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VARXOR-C</entry>
<entry>Specifies to use TR-31 Key Block Version ID of "C" (X'43'). This is typically a DES
version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry>Specifies to use TR-31 Key Block Version ID of "D" (X'44'). This is typically for AES or
DES.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>EncryptedContent format (one, optional).</i></b> TR-34-2012 in
examples B.8 and B.9 places the EncryptedContent according to X9.73, after the
ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier. TR-34-2019 has changed this, introducing a small
incompatibility, placing the EncryptedContent as the last field inside of the
ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier. Check with your ATM vendor to ensure that you are using the
correct option.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>T34-2012 </entry>
<entry>Builds the EncryptedContentInfo section of the EnvelopedData of the
<parmname>output_token</parmname> according to the sample description in X9 TR-34-2012 sections B.8
and B.9. The EncryptedContent appears after the ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier. This keyword
impact applies to either the 1PASSCRE or 2PASSCRE <parmname>output_token</parmname> as the
compatibility issue applies to both. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>T34-2019</entry>
<entry>Builds the EncryptedContentInfo section of the EnvelopedData of the
<parmname>output_token</parmname> according to the sample description in X9 TR-34-2019 sections B.8
and B.9. The EncryptedContent appears inside the ContentEncryptionAlgorithmIdentifier. This keyword
impact applies to either the 1PASSCRE or 2PASSCRE <parmname>output_token</parmname> as the
compatibility issue applies to both.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c2"><b><i>SignedAttributes order</i></b> (one, optional). TR-34-2012 and
TR-34-2019 define a <term>SignedAttributes</term> object that is part of the Signer Info, in the
<parmname>output_token</parmname> parameter. The <term>SignedAttributes</term> object is a
<term>Set-of</term> as defined in ITU T-REC-X.690.201508. The components of a <term>Set-of</term>
are meant to be ordered by increasing size. Some ATM vendors implemented the <term>Set-of</term>
object with a static order of components matching the order shown in the TR-34-2012 (repeated in
TR-34-2019), in section B.9.1. Check with your ATM vendor to ensure you are using the correct
option. Only valid with <keyword>2PASSCRE</keyword>.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry>SASORTSZ</entry>
<entry>Use the flexible ordering for <term>Set-of</term> components as defined in 
ITU T-REC-X.690.201508, which requires order by increasing size. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry>SASORTEX</entry>
<entry>Use the static ordering shown in the parsed example of TR-34-2012 in section B.9.1.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" pgwide="1"><title>TR-31 key usage value for output key
block</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">TR-31 key usage value for output key block (one required). The TR-34 key
transport key block contains a TR-31 key header contains the key usage.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.08*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.23*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="3.9*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>TR-31 key usage</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key types</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c4"><i><b>TR-31 key usage value for output key block (one
required).</b></i> The TR-34 key transport key block contains a TR-31 key header contains the key
usage.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>KEK</entry>
<entry>"K0"</entry>
<entry>IMPORTER or EXPORTER DES or AES.</entry>
<entry>Specifies to export a key-encrypting key (KEK) to an external TR-31 key block. You must
select one TR-31 mode of key use keyword from <xref
href="wskc_tr34_Distribution_required.dita#Dcsfb4-gen395_accesspt/TR34exp"/> with this usage
keyword. The table shows all the supported translations for key usage keyword KEK. It also shows the
access control commands that must be enabled in the active role to use the combination of inputs
shown.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>KEK-WRAP </entry>
<entry>"K1"</entry>
<entry>IMPORTER or EXPORTER DES or AES. AES must have TR-31 wrap permission. </entry>
<entry>AES must have TR-31 wrap permission. Specifies to export a TR-31 key block protection key
(KEK-WRAP) to an external TR-31 key block. You must select one TR-31 mode of key use keyword from
<xref href="wskc_tr34_Distribution_required.dita#Dcsfb4-gen395_accesspt/TR34exp"/> with this usage
keyword. The table shows all the supported translations for key usage keyword KEK-WRAP. It also
shows the access control commands that must be enabled in the active role to use the combination of
inputs shown.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" pgwide="1"><title>TR-31 mode of key use</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">TR-31 mode of key use (one required). Only those TR-31 modes shown are
supported. Modes requested must match or be included in the capabilities of the key being exported.
For example, DEC-ONLY and GENVER cannot be used if the exported key has ENC-ONLY capability.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.03*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1.23*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1.53*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>TR-31 key usage</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key types</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c4"><b><i>TR-31 mode of key use (one required).</i></b> Only those TR-31
modes shown are supported. Modes requested must match or be included in the capabilities of the key
being exported. For example, DEC-ONLY and GENVER cannot be used if the exported key has ENC-ONLY
capability.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>DEC-ONLY</entry>
<entry>"D"</entry>
<entry>KEK, KEK-WRAP</entry>
<entry>Specifies to decrypt and unwrap only.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>ENC-ONLY</entry>
<entry>"E"</entry>
<entry>KEK, KEK-WRAP</entry>
<entry>Specifies to encrypt and wrap only.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="table_lwm_nr3_xhb" pgwide="1"><title>TR-31
exportability </title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">TR-31 exportability (one, optional). Use to set exportability field in
TR-31 key block. Defines whether the key may be transferred outside the cryptographic domain in
which the key is found.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.02*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="2.62*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>TR-31 mode</entry>
<entry>Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c3"><i><b>TR-31 exportability (one, optional).</b></i> Use to set
exportability field in TR-31 key block. Defines whether the key may be transferred outside the
cryptographic domain in which the key is found.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EXP-ANY </entry>
<entry>"E"</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key in the TR-31 key block is exportable under a key-encrypting key in a
form that meets the requirements of X9.24 Parts 1 or 2. <p>This is the default.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EXP-TRST</entry>
<entry>"S"</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key in the TR-31 key block is sensitive, exportable under a key-encrypting
key in a form not necessarily meeting the requirements of X9.24 Parts 1 or 2.<note>A TR-31 key block
with a key block version ID of "B" or "C" and an exportability field value of "E" cannot be wrapped
by a key-encrypting key that is wrapped in ECB mode (legacy wrap mode). This is because ECB mode
does not comply with ANS X9.24 Part 1.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>EXP-NONE</entry>
<entry>"N"</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the key in the TR-31 key block is non-exportable.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
<p>The following tables map the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
key types for the DES and AES keys to the corresponding allowed key usage keywords and mode of use
keywords, as well as the access control points that are required.<table frame="all" rowsep="1"
colsep="1" pgwide="1" id="exportDEStr34"><title>Export translation table for DES keys in TR-34 key
blocks</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Export translation table for DES keys in TR-34 key blocks. </p>
</desc><tgroup cols="6">
<colspec colname="c1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c5" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c6" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key type (and required
attributes)</entry>
<entry>Key usage keyword</entry>
<entry>Key block protection method keyword</entry>
<entry>TR-31 mode of key use keyword</entry>
<entry>Offset (hex)</entry>
<entry>Access control name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c6">Security note: The TR-31 modes requested must match or be included
in the capabilities of the key being exported. For example, DEC-ONLY and GENVER cannot be used if
the exported key has ENC-ONLY capability.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1">DES EXPORTER</entry>
<entry>KEK ("K0")</entry>
<entry morerows="1">VARXOR-A, VARDRV-B, VARXOR-C, VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry morerows="1">ENC-ONLY ("E") </entry>
<entry morerows="1">0242</entry>
<entry morerows="1">TR-34 Key Distribution - Permit DES EXPORTER to K0 or K1</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>KEK-WRAP ("K1")</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry morerows="1">DES IMPORTER</entry>
<entry>KEK ("K0")</entry>
<entry morerows="1">VARXOR-A, VARDRV-B, VARXOR-C, VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry morerows="1">DEC-ONLY ("D")</entry>
<entry morerows="1">0243</entry>
<entry morerows="1">TR-34 Key Distribution - Permit DES IMPORTER to K0 or K1</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>KEK-WRAP ("K1")</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table><table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="AESexporttr34" pgwide="1"
><title>Export translation table for AES keys in TR-34 key blocks</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Export translation table for AES keys in TR-34 key blocks. </p>
</desc><tgroup cols="6">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colnum="3" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c4" colnum="4" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c5" colnum="5" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="c6" colnum="6" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key type (and required
attributes)</entry>
<entry>Key usage keyword</entry>
<entry>Key block protection method keyword</entry>
<entry>TR-31 mode of key use keyword</entry>
<entry>Offset (hex)</entry>
<entry>Access control name</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="c1" nameend="c6">Security note: The TR-31 modes requested must match or be included
in the capabilities of the key being exported. For example, DEC-ONLY and GENVER cannot be used if
the exported key has ENC-ONLY capability.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES EXPORTER</entry>
<entry>KEK ("K0")</entry>
<entry>VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry>ENC-ONLY ("E")</entry>
<entry>0244</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Distribution - Permit AES EXPORTER to K0</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES EXPORTER (EXPTT31D)</entry>
<entry>KEK-WRAP ("K1")</entry>
<entry>VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry>ENC-ONLY ("E")</entry>
<entry>0245</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Distribution - Permit AES EXPORTER to K1</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES IMPORTER</entry>
<entry>KEK ("K0")</entry>
<entry>VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry>DEC-ONLY ("D")</entry>
<entry>0246</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Distribution - Permit AES IMPORTER to K0</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>AES IMPORTER (IMPTT31D)</entry>
<entry>KEK-WRAP ("K1")</entry>
<entry>VARDRV-D</entry>
<entry>DEC-ONLY ("D")</entry>
<entry>0247</entry>
<entry>TR-34 Key Distribution - Permit AES IMPORTER to K1</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>source_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length in bytes of the <i>source_key_identifier</i> parameter. If the
<i>source_key_identifier</i> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be
between the actual length of the token and 900. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>source_key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The identifier of the key to be exported using the TR-34 protocol. The key identifier is an
internal or external token or the label of an operational token in key storage. If the source key is
an external token, an identifier for the KEK that wraps the source key must be passed in the
<i>unwrap_kek_identifier</i> parameter.<p>The control vector of a DES token or the key usage field
of an AES token must not indicate that the key in the token is a partial key. Partial keys are not
exportable using TR-34.</p><p> If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the
token will be returned encrypted under the current master key.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>unwrap_kek_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length in bytes of the <i>unwrap_kek_identifier</i> parameter. When the
<i>source_key_identifier</i> is an internal key, the value must be 0. When the
<i>unwrap_kek_identifier</i> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be
between the actual length of the token and 725.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>unwrap_kek_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The identifier of the wrapping key of the source key identifier when the source key is an
external token. The key identifier is an operational token or the key label of an operational token
in key storage.<p>When the <i>unwrap_kek_identifier_length</i> is zero, this parameter is ignored.
</p><p>The wrapping key must be a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
DES key of type EXPORTER or OKEYXLAT, or an AES key with type EXPORTER.</p><p>If the token supplied
was encrypted under the old master key, the token will be returned encrypted under the current
master key.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>freshness_indicator_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>freshness_indicator</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 200
bytes. <p>The value is determined by the requested action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>2PASSCRE</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains the length of the random number token received from the KRD
(RTKRD).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>1PASSCRE</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains the length of the ASCII timestamp for use in the key transport token.
The value must be 13 or 15.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>freshness_indicator</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The freshness indicator. The meaning is determined by the requested action keyword:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>2PASSCRE</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains the DER encoded random number token received from the KRD (RT-KRD).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>1PASSCRE</dt>
<dd>This parameter contains an ASCII timestamp for use in the key transport token. The timestamp is
encoded as a SigningTime object in the token (OID of iso(1) member-body(2) us(840) rsadsi(113549)
pkcs(1) pkcs-9(9) signing-time(5)}, defined in IETF RFC 2985). Two input encodings are accepted for
this parameter, UTCTime encoded as YYMMDDHHMMSSZ (13 bytes) and GeneralizedTime encoded as
YYYYMMDDHHMMSSZ (15 bytes). Date ranges allowed for each format are:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>GeneralizedTime</dt>
<dd>Dates between 1 January 2050 and 31 December 2105 (inclusive).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UTCTime</dt>
<dd>Dates between 1 January 1950 and 31 December 2049 (inclusive).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>There must be an ASCII 'Z' character at the end. <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verifies  that timestamps passed with
either encoding are valid timestamps. <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> makes no attempt to validate the timestamp
against the clock inside the coprocessor.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>crl_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>crl</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>crl</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The certificate revocation list (CRL) from the certificate authority the is in common with
the KRD for the requested service. The CRL may be in DER or PEM format.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_kdh</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KDH for the requested service. The
certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<note>This service is acting as the KDH so the
<i>cred_kdh</i> is not expected to validate against the internal PKI of the adapter.</note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_krd_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_krd</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_krd</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KRD for the requested service (the
CredKRD). The certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<p>The usage attributes in the X.509
certificate must allow keyEncipherment. The public key will be extracted and used to encrypt the
ephemeral key wrapping key that protects the TMK that is being transported</p><note>This service is
acting as the KDH so the <i>cred_krd</i> is normally expected to validate against the internal PKI
of the adapter. Use the PKI-NONE keyword to override this validation,</note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <synph><var>private_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter. If the
<i>private_key_identifier</i> contains a label, the value must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be
between the actual length of the token and 3500.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The identifier of the private key used to sign the output token. The key identifier is an
operational RSA secure token or the label of such a token in key storage.<p>The key usage of the
token must allow digital signature. Retained private keys are not supported in this
service.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>key_version_number</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The two-byte value to be copied into the Key Version Number field of the output TR-31 key
block. If no key version number is needed, the value must be EBCDIC ("00"). The value is not allowed
to indicate a partial key.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>opt_blocks_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <synph><var>opt_blocks</var></synph> parameter in bytes. If no optional
data is to be included in the TR-31 key block, this parameter must be set to zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>opt_blocks</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The optional block data to be included in the output TR-31 key block. The optional block
data is prepared using the TR-31 Optional Data Build callable service and must be in ASCII. This
parameter is ignored if <parmname>opt_blocks_length</parmname> is zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The length of the <parmname>output_token</parmname> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is
3500 bytes. On input, the value is the size of the buffer to receive the
<parmname>output_token</parmname>. On output, the value is the actual size of the data returned in
the <parmname>output_token</parmname> parameter.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_token</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The generated DER encoded TR-34 token.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>2PASSCRE</dt>
<dd>This parameter will contain the 2 pass TR-34 key transport token (KTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>1PASSCRE</dt>
<dd>This parameter will contain the 1 pass TR-34 key transport token (KTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is reserved. The value must be zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
