<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_kgn2required">
<title>Required commands</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn2"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn2"/> required commands.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn2"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Depending on your specification of key form and key type, different commands are required to
enable the processing of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/>
verb.</p>
<table>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Required commands for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/> verb</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset </entry>
<entry>Command</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry><ph>X'039D'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - Allow GEN of OPOP EPVR/OPIN Key Pair</cmdname><p>This command is
required, if key form and key type combinations are specified that are shown with an
<codeph>F</codeph> in <xref href="wskc_r_kgn2usage.dita#l0wskc02_kgn2usage/kgn2usage_tab2"
/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'00EA'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - OP</cmdname><p>This command is required, if key form and
key type combinations are specified that are shown with an <codeph>X</codeph> in <xref
href="wskc_r_kgn2usage.dita#l0wskc02_kgn2usage/kgn2usage_tab1"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'00EB'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - Key set</cmdname><p>This command is required,
if key form and key type combinations are specified that are shown with an <codeph>X</codeph> in
<xref href="wskc_r_kgn2usage.dita#l0wskc02_kgn2usage/kgn2usage_tab2"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'00EC'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - Key set extended</cmdname><p>This command is
required, if key form and key type combinations are specified that are shown with an
<codeph>E</codeph> in <xref href="wskc_r_kgn2usage.dita#l0wskc02_kgn2usage/kgn2usage_tab2"
/>.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section><p>To disallow the wrapping of a key with a weaker key-encrypting key, enable the 
<cmdname>Prohibit weak wrapping - Transport keys</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0328'</ph>) in
the active role. This command affects multiple verbs. See <xref href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"/>.</p>
</section>
<section><p>To receive a warning when wrapping a key with a weaker key-encrypting key, enable the
<cmdname>Warn when weak wrap - Transport keys</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'032C'</ph>) in the
active role. The <cmdname>Prohibit weak wrapping - Transport keys</cmdname> command
(offset <ph>X'0328'</ph>) overrides this command.</p>
<p>To disable the wrapping of a key with a weaker master key, the <cmdname>Prohibit weak wrapping -
Master keys</cmdname> command (offset X'0333') must be enabled in the active role.</p>
<p>To receive a warning when wrapping a key with a weaker master key, enable the <cmdname>Warn when
weak wrap - Master keys</cmdname> command (offset X'0332') in the active role. The <cmdname>Prohibit
weak wrapping - Master keys</cmdname> command overrides this command.</p>
<p>The following access-control points support DK keys (DK enabled AES key types MAC, PINCALC,
PINPROT, and PINPRW):</p>
<table>
<title>ACPs supporting DK keys for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/> verb</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">ACPs supporting DK keys for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/> verb</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="4*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset </entry>
<entry>Command</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'02BB'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - DK PIN key set</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'02BC'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - DK PIN print key</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'02BD'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - DK PIN admin1 key set PINPROT</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'02BE'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - DK PIN admin1 key set MAC</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><ph>X'02BF'</ph></entry>
<entry><cmdname>Key Generate2 - DK PIN admin2 key set MAC</cmdname></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</refbody></reference>
