<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_akrl" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkral1"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkarl1"></keyword>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkral1"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkarl1"></keyword>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkarl1"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkral1"></keyword> verb
creates a key-record-list file containing information about specified
key records in key storage. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkral1"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkarl1"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkarl1"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkral1"></keyword>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkral1"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkarl1"></keyword>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>environment variable<indexterm>CSUAESDS</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CSUAESDS</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Information listed includes whether record validation
is correct, the type of key, and the date and time the record was
created and last updated.</p></section>
<section><p>Specify the key records to be listed using the key-label
variable. To identify multiple key records, use the wild card (*)
in the key label.</p></section>
<section> <note><ol>
<li>To list all the labels in key storage, specify the <synph><var>key_label</var></synph> parameter
with *,  *.*,  *.*.*, and so forth, up to a maximum of seven name
tokens (*.*.*.*.*.*.*).</li>
<li>AES key records are stored in the external key-storage file defined
by the CSUAESDS environment variable.</li>
</ol> </note></section>
<section><p>This verb creates the key-record-list file and returns
the name of the file and the length of the file name to the calling
application. This file has a header record, followed by 0 - <synph><var>n</var></synph> detail
records, where <synph><var>n</var></synph> is the number of key records
with matching key-labels.</p></section>
<section><p><ph>The file is kept in the <codeph>/opt/IBM/<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword>/keys/deslist</codeph> directory
(assuming the directory name was not changed during installation).
 These list files are created under the ownership of the environment
of the user that requests the list service.  Make sure the files created
kept the same group ID as your installation requires.  This can also
be achieved by setting the 'set-group-id-on-execution' bit on in this
directory.  See the g+s flags in the <synph><kwd>chmod</kwd></synph> command
for full details.  Not doing this might cause errors to <ph>be</ph> returned
on key-record-list verbs.</ph></p><?Pub Caret 36?></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003227?>
