<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference rev="hw20i1" id="TR34_Receive" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34r"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34r"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34r"/> verb for
operations that take place at the Key Receiving Device (KRD) during TR-34-prrotocol
key-transport-related operations, as specified in X9 TR34-2012.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/> callable service</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34r"/>
(<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"
/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34r"/>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34r"
/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>X9 TR34-2012</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody><section>
<p>The TR-34 Protocol describes the data objects and cryptograms needed for securely provisioning a
symmetric key from a Key Distribution Host (KDH) to a Key Receiving Device (KRD). Although designed
for 1-way key distribution, such as between a host computer (KDH) and an ATM (KRD), the protocol can
be used for peer-to-peer key distribution as well. The main requirement for either use of the
protocol is a Certificate Authority (CA) trusted by both the KDH and the KRD.</p>
<p> This service is used to perform these operations:</p>
<ul>
<li>2PASSRCV: The TR34 Key Transport (2-pass) token (KT-KDH) RECEIVE service.<ul>
<li>KT-KDH: (INPUT, <i>input_token</i>). Key transport (2-pass) token received from KDH.</li>
<li>CredKDH: (INPUT, <i>cred_kdh</i>). KDH credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>RT-KRD: (INPUT, <i>input_freshness_indicator</i>).Token originally sent by the KRD to the KDH
and now used for validation.</li>
<li>D-krd: (INPUT, <i>private_key_identifier</i>). The private key matching the public key in
CredKRD.</li>
<li>Kn-T: (OUTPUT, <i>output_key_identifier</i>). <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key token containing the transported
TMK/KBPK.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>1PASSRCV: The TR34 Key Transport (1-pass) token (KT-KDH) RECEIVE service.<ul>
<li>KT-KDH: (INPUT, <i>input_token</i>). Key transport (1-pass) token received from KDH.</li>
<li>CredKDH: (INPUT, <i>cred_kdh</i>). KDH credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>Timestamp-min: (INPUT, <i>input_freshness_indicator</i>). Minimum timestamp value allowed, could
be the last timestamp received or a bootstrap value.</li>
<li>D-krd: (INPUT, <i>private_key_identifier</i>). The private key matching the public key in
CredKRD.</li>
<li>Kn-T: (OUTPUT, <i>output_key_identifier</i>). CCA key token containing the transported
TMK/KBPK.</li>
<li>Timestamp-rcv: (OUTPUT, <i>output_freshness_indicator</i>). The timestamp value received in the
KT-KDH.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<p rev="sh21i1">This verb can create either the ITU T-REC-X.690-201508 or the ASC X9 TR-34-2012
variant of the <term>SignedAttributes</term> section in the <term>SignerInfo</term> of the token
created, for 2-pass or 1-pass services. CSNDT34R has been updated to accept either format of the
<term>SignedAttributes</term> token.</p>
<note othertype="Notes" type="other">
<ol>
<li>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</li>
<li> Compliant-tagged AES and DES tokens are exportable using this service. A compliant-tagged RSA
private key is required.</li>
<li>The RT-KRD token can be created with correct formatting using the RT-KRD processing of the
CSNBRNGL service. See <xref href="wskc_r_rng.dita"/> for more details.</li>
<li>RSA 2048 bit and 3072 bit keys are supported by <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>. This allows strength equivalent to an AES
128-bit key. TR-34 explicitly supports only RSA 2048-bit keys so some vendors will only support that
key size.</li>
</ol>
</note>
</section></refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000077566?>
