<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_cvenc">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcve"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcve"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>This verb is used to encrypt plaintext using a CVARENC key to produce ciphertext using
the Cipher Block Chaining (CBC) method. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcve"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcve"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcve"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CVARENC</indexterm>
<indexterm>Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)</indexterm>
<indexterm>DES key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>key label</indexterm>
<indexterm>ciphertext</indexterm>
<indexterm>plaintext<indexterm>encrypt</indexterm><indexterm>encipher</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The plaintext must be a multiple of eight bytes in length.</p></section>
<section><p>Specify the following parameters to encrypt plaintext:
<ul>
<li>An operational DES key-token or a key label of an operational
DES key-token record that contains the key to be used to encrypt the
plaintext with the <synph><var>c-variable_encrypting_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter.
The control vector in the key token must specify the <synph><kwd>CVARENC</kwd></synph> key-type.</li>
<li>The length of the plaintext, which is the same as the length of
the returned ciphertext, with the <synph><var>text_length</var></synph> parameter.
The plaintext must be a multiple of eight bytes in length.</li>
<li>The plaintext with the <synph><var>plaintext</var></synph> parameter.</li>
<li>The initialization vector with the <synph><var>initialization_vector</var></synph> parameter.</li>
<li>A variable for the returned ciphertext with the <synph><var>ciphertext</var></synph> parameter.
The length of this field is specified with the <synph><var>text_length</var></synph> variable.</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section><p>This verb does the following:
<ul>
<li>Uses the <synph><kwd>CVARENC</kwd></synph> key and the initialization value with
the CBC method to encrypt the plaintext.</li>
<li>Returns the encrypted plaintext in the variable pointed to by
the <synph><var>ciphertext</var></synph> parameter.</li>
</ul></p></section>
</refbody></reference>