<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE task PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Task//EN"
 "ibm-task.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<task id="l0wskc118" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16a">
<title>Uninstall the RPM or DEB</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Uninstall the RPM or DEB</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Uninstall the RPM or DEB</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the following steps to uninstall the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> RPM or DEB.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
RPM<indexterm>uninstall</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
DEB<indexterm>uninstall</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<taskbody>
<steps>
<step>
<cmd>Uninstall any RPMs or DEBs that depend on the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> RPM or DEB packages. If you try to
uninstall the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> RPM or DEB and
dependent RPMs or DEBs are still installed, the uninstall RPM or DEB command will fail and list the
names of dependent packages. Therefore, you can skip to Step <xref href="#l0wskc118/l0wskc02_urpms2"
/> and come back to this step if Step <xref href="#l0wskc118/l0wskc02_urpms2"/> fails for that
reason.</cmd>
</step>
<step id="l0wskc02_urpms2">
<cmd>Uninstall the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> RPM or
DEB.</cmd>
<info>
<ol rev="sh16a">
<li>Login as root. You must be root to uninstall the RPM or DEB.</li>
<li>You must use the full name. You can find the name by issuing one of the following commands:
<codeblock>
rpm -qa | grep csulcca /* for RPM */
dpkg -l | grep csulcca /* for DEB */
</codeblock></li>
<li>Uninstall the <ph rev="sh16a">RPM or DEB</ph> with the following command:
<codeblock>
rpm -e &lt;<synph><var>rpm_name</var></synph>&gt;                              /* for RPM */
dpkg -P &lt;<synph rev="sh18i2"><var>deb_name</var></synph>&gt; or dpkg --purge &lt;<synph><var>deb_name</var></synph>&gt;  /* for DEB */
</codeblock></li>
</ol>
<note>
<ol>
<li>Groups are no longer deleted during the uninstall of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
<ph rev="sh16a">RPM or DEB</ph>. If you created any users with one of the groups created by the <ph
rev="sh16a">package</ph> install as their primary (note that the <ph rev="sh16a">package</ph>
install does NOT create any users, just groups), you can delete those users/groups yourself after
uninstall, or remove such users before the uninstall of the <ph rev="sh16a">RPM or DEB</ph>. This
will remove any potential security holes.</li>
<?Pub Caret 0?>
<li>Card master keys (and other state information) are untouched by the host-side uninstall of the
<ph rev="sh16a">RPM or DEB</ph>.</li>
<li>Key storage files are not deleted by the uninstall. All default and non-default key storage
files are left as is. If you reinstall or install an upgraded package and load any new cards with
the same master keys, you still can use your old key storage (old cards still have the old keys, see
step <xref href="wskc_t_insconrpm.dita#l0wskc02_insconrpm/l0wskc02_mkls7bbb"/> of <xref
href="wskc_t_insconrpm.dita#l0wskc02_insconrpm"/>).</li>
</ol>
</note>
</info>
</step>
</steps>
</taskbody>
</task>
<?Pub *0000002434?>
