<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_cpe">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/> <ph>verb</ph> formats a PIN into one of the following
PIN block formats and encrypts the results. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>You can use this verb to create an encrypted PIN block for transmission. With the
<synph><kwd>RANDOM</kwd></synph> keyword, you can have the verb generate random PIN numbers. <ph
rev="sh20i1">The following PIN-block formats are supported:</ph><ul>
<li><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3621 format</li>
<li><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624 format</li>
<li>ISO-0 format (same as the ANSI X9.8, VISA-1, and ECI formats)</li>
<li>ISO-1 format (same as the ECI-4 format)</li>
<li>ISO-2 format</li>
<li>ISO-3 format</li>
<li>ISO-4 format</li>
<li><tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 4704 encrypting PINPAD (4704-EPP) format</li>
<li>VISA 2 format</li>
<li>VISA 3 format</li>
<li>VISA 4 format</li>
<li>ECI2 format</li>
<li>ECI3 format</li>
</ul></p>
<note>A clear PIN is a sensitive piece of information. Ensure your application program and system
design provide adequate protection for any clear PIN value. </note>
<p rev="sh20i1">To use this verb, specify the following data: </p>
<ul rev="sh20i1">
<li>A key that is used to encrypt the PIN block.</li>
<li>A clear PIN. When you generate random PINs, the <parmname>clear_PIN</parmname> variable
specifies the length of the generated-PIN value by the number of left-aligned numeral zero
characters. The remainder of the variable must be padded on the right with space characters.</li>
<li>A PIN profile that specifies the format of the PIN block to be created, and any pad digit; see
<xref href="wskc_c_pinppp.dita"/>.</li>
<li>When using the ISO-0, ISO-3 or, beginning with Release 5.4, ISO-4 PIN-block format, the
<parmname>PAN_data</parmname> variable provides the account number that is X-OR-ed with the PIN
information.</li>
<li>The sequence number. Specify a value of 99999 in the integer variable.</li>
</ul>
<p rev="sh20i1">The verb performs the following tasks: </p>
<ul rev="sh20i1">
<li> Formats the PIN into the specified PIN-block format.</li>
<li>For a PIN-block format other than ISO-4, checks the control vector of the DES OPINENC key by
verifying that CV bit 18 = B'1' (CPINENC). For a PIN-block format of ISO-4, checks the key usage of
the AES PINPROT key by verifying that the key can be used for encryption but not decryption. The
encryption mode is CBC, the key can be used to encrypt a clear key (CPINENC), and the key can allow
ISO-4 PIN-block formatting. </li>
<li>For a PIN-block format other than ISO-4, encrypts the PIN block in ECB mode. For a PIN-block
format of ISO-4, encrypts the PIN block in CBC mode.</li>
<li>Returns the encrypted PIN-block in the <parmname>encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> variable.</li>
</ul>
<note rev="sh18i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>
