<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc195">
<title>Parameters</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrkatr"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc rev="sh15">The parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrkatr"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrkatr"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>HMAC</indexterm>
<indexterm>NOEXPORT</indexterm>
<indexterm>NOEX-SYM</indexterm>
<indexterm>NOEXUASY</indexterm>
<indexterm>NOEXAASY</indexterm>
<indexterm>key_identifier_length parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key_identifier parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key_encrypting_key_identifier_length parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key_encrypting_key_identifier parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>opt_parameter1_length parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>opt_parameter1 parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>opt_parameter2_length parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>opt_parameter2 parameter<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The number of keywords you supplied in the <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameter.
This value must be 1 - 10.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> contains keywords that provide control information
to the verb. The keywords must be in contiguous storage with each of the keywords left-aligned in
its own 8-byte location and padded on the right with blanks. The
<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords are described in <xref
href="#l0wskc195/l0wskc02_restkara_tab1"/>.<table rev="shd3" id="l0wskc02_restkara_tab1" pgwide="1"
frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="10*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"/>
<entry colname="col2"/>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>Token algorithm</i> (one required) </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>AES</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies to further restrict one or more attributes of a variable-length AES key-token. This
keyword is not supported for a fixed-length AES key-token.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>DES</b>
</entry>
<entry>Specifies to further restrict one or more attributes of a fixed-length DES key-token.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>HMAC</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies to further restrict one or more attributes of a variable-length HMAC
key-token.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b>Keywords for AES or HMAC variable-length key
tokens (key token for clear key not allowed)</b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="left" nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>General attribute restriction</i> (one,
optional). Ignored if attribute restriction keyword is specified.</entry>
</row>
<!--Page eject added on 9/23/2011-->
<row>
<entry><b>NOEXPORT</b></entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported by any verb. This keyword is equivalent to providing
all of the export control attribute restrictions keywords (<b>NOEX-AES</b>, <b>NOEX-DES</b>,
<b>NOEX-RSA</b>, <b>NOEX-RAW</b>, <b>NOEXSYM</b>, <b>NOEXAASY</b>, and <b>NOEXUASY</b>). This is the
default when no attribute restrictions keywords (export control and key usage) are
specified.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>Export control attribute restrictions </i> (one or more,
optional).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEX-AES</b>
</entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported using an AES key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEX-DES</b>
</entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported using a DES key.</entry>
<?Pub Caret 8?>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEX-RSA</b>
</entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported using an RSA key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEX-RAW</b>
</entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported using a RAW key. Defined for future use. Currently
ignored. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top"><b>NOEX-SYM</b></entry>
<entry valign="top">Prohibits the key from being exported using a symmetric key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEXAASY</b></entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key form being exported using an authenticated asymmetric key (for example, an
RSA key in a trusted block).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEXUASY</b></entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported using an unauthenticated asymmetric key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>Ciphertext translation restriction</i> (one, optional). Only
valid for AES CIPHER keys.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>C-XLATE</b>
</entry>
<entry>Restricts the key to being used by the Cipher_Text_Translate2 (CSNBCTT2) verb. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>KEK identifier rule</i> (one, optional). Not allowed if
KEK_identifier_length variable is 0. Required if KEK identifier is a key label and the key in key
storage is an RSA KEK). Release 4.2 or later.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>IKEK-AES</b></entry>
<entry>The inbound key-encrypting key for the external key is an AES KEK. This is the
default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>IKEK-PKA</b></entry>
<entry>The inbound key-encrypting key for the external key is an asymmetric key. Required if an RSA
transport key is used (that is, the key being changed is wrapped using the PKOAEP2 method).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry align="center" nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b>Keywords for DES fixed-length key
tokens</b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>General attribute restriction</i> (one, optional). Ignored if
attribute restriction or key restriction keyword is specified.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOEXPORT</b></entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported by any verb. Use this keyword to set XPORT-OK off (CV
bit 17 = B'0') and NOT31XPT (CV bit 27 = B'1'). This is the default if no attribute restriction or
key restriction keywords are specified.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>Attribute to restrict</i> (one, optional). Keywords
<b>CCAXPORT</b> and <b>NOT31XPT</b> in this group are defaults if no keyword is provided. Only valid
for DES. Make multiple calls to this verb as needed to restrict more than one of these
attributes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>CCAXPORT</b></entry>
<entry>Prohibits the key from being exported by any verb. Use this keyword to set XPORT-OK off (CV
bit 17 = B'0').</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>DOUBLE-O</b>
</entry>
<entry>For double-length DES key tokens that do not have equal key halves (ignoring parity bits),
sets CV bit 40 = B'1' to guarantee that the two 8-byte key values of a DES double-length key are
unique, that is, the key halves are not replicated. Key type must be EXPORTER, IKEYXLAT, IMPORTER,
or OKEYXLAT. <note>A double-length key with replicated key halves has an effective strength of a
single-length key.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>NOT31XPT</b> (Release 4.2 or later)</entry>
<entry>Sets export control CV to NOT31XPT (bit 57 = B'1') to prohibit TR-31 export of the
key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><i>KEK identifier rule</i> (one, optional). Not allowed if
KEK_identifier_length variable is 0. Release 4.2 or later.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>IKEK-DES</b></entry>
<entry>The inbound key-encrypting key for the external key is a DES KEK. This is the
default.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <parmname>key_identifier</parmname> parameter in bytes. The maximum value
is 725.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The key for which the export control is to be updated. The parameter contains an internal
token or the 64-byte label of the key in key storage. If a label is specified, the key token will be
updated in key storage and not returned by this verb.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_encrypting_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The byte length of the <synph><var>key_encrypting_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter.
This value must be 0.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>key_encrypting_key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>opt_parameter1_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The byte length of the <synph><var>opt_parameter1</var></synph> parameter. This value must
be 0.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>opt_parameter1</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>opt_parameter2_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The byte length of the <synph><var>opt_parameter2</var></synph> parameter. This value must
be 0.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>opt_parameter2</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
