<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Topic//EN"
 "ibm-topic.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<topic id="rsapk_chin_remtheo_2048" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh18i1">
<title>RSA private key, 2048-bit Chinese Remainder Theorem</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>RSA private key, 2048-bit Chinese Remainder Theorem</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private key, 2048-bit Chinese
Remainder Theorem</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>View the RSA private key token, 2048-bit Chinese Remainder Theorem (X'05'). This is an
asymmetric key token.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>RSA private key<indexterm>2048-bit Chinese Remainder Theorem</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>2048-bit Chinese Remainder Theorem</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<table frame="all" id="crt2048" pgwide="1">
<title>RSA private key, 2048-bit Chinese Remainder Theorem format section (X'05')</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">RSA private key, 2048-bit Chinese-Remainder Theorem format section
(X'05')</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="5*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="18*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (decimal)</entry>
<entry>Number of bytes</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><b>X'05'</b>, section identifier, RSA private key, 2048-bit maximum CRT (replaced by RSA-CRT)
format<p>This section type is no longer created by <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Section version number (X'00').</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length in bytes (76 + ppp + qqq + rrr + sss + ttt + uuu + xxx + nnn).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the private-key subsection cleartext, offset 28 to the end of the
modulus.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length in bytes of the optionally encrypted secure subsection, or X'0000' if the subsection
is not encrypted.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>026</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Master-key verification pattern in an internal key-token, else X'0000'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>028</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key format and security flag byte. <p>External key-token:</p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'40'</dt>
<dd>Unencrypted RSA private-key subsection identifier, Chinese-Remainder Theorem format</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>Internal key-token:</p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'42'</dt>
<dd>Encrypted RSA private-key subsection identifier, Chinese-Remainder Theorem format</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>All other values are reserved and undefined.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>029</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>030</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash of the optional key-name section; if there is no name section, then 20 bytes of
X'00'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>050</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key-usage flag byte. <p>Key usage:</p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'11xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Only key unwrapping (KM-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'10xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Both signature generation and key unwrapping (KEY-MGMT)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'01xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'00xx xxxx'</dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl> All other bits are reserved and must be zero. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>051</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1">052</entry>
<entry>Start of the optionally encrypted subsection. <p>Private key encryption:</p><ul>
<li>External token: EDE2 process using the double-length transport key</li>
<li>Internal token: EDE3 process using the asymmetric master key.</li>
</ul><p>See <xref href="wskc_c_algtdes.dita#l0wskc02_algtdes"/>.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>052</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>Random number, confounder.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>060</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of prime number, <varname>p</varname>, in bytes: <varname>ppp</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>062</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of prime number, <varname>q</varname>, in bytes: <varname>qqq</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>064</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of d<sub>p</sub>, in bytes: <varname>rrr</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>066</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of d<sub>q</sub>, in bytes:<varname> sss</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>068</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of A<sub>p</sub>, in bytes: <varname>ttt</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>070</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of A<sub>q</sub>, in bytes: <varname>uuu</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>072</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of modulus, <varname>n</varname>, in bytes: <varname>nnn</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>074</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of padding field, in bytes: <varname>xxx</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>076</entry>
<entry>ppp</entry>
<entry>Prime number, <varname>p</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>076+ppp</entry>
<entry>qqq</entry>
<entry>Prime number, <varname>q.</varname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>076+ppp+qqq</entry>
<entry>rrr</entry>
<entry>d<sub>p</sub> = d mod(p - 1).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>076+ppp+qqq+rrr</entry>
<entry>sss</entry>
<entry>d<sub>q</sub> = d mod(q - 1).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><lines>
076+ppp+qqq
+rrr+sss</lines></entry>
<entry>ttt</entry>
<entry>A<sub>p</sub> = q<sup>p-1</sup> mod(n).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines>
076+ppp+qqq+rrr
+sss+ttt
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>uuu</entry>
<entry>A<sub>q</sub> (n + 1 - A<sub>p</sub>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines>
076+ppp+qqq+rrr
+sss+ttt+uuu
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>xxx</entry>
<entry>X'00' padding of length xxx bytes such that the length from the start of the random number
above to the end of the padding field is a multiple of 8 bytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1">End of the optionally encrypted subsection; all of the fields
starting with the confounder field and ending with the variable-length pad field are enciphered for
key confidentiality when the key-format-and-security flag byte (offset 28) indicates that the
private key is enciphered.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>
<lines>
076+ppp+qqq
+rrr+sss+ttt
+uuu+xxx
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>nnn</entry>
<entry>Modulus, n. n = pq, where p and q are prime and 2<sup>512</sup> ≤ n &lt;
2<sup>2048</sup>.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</body>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000009493?>
