<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc253">
<title>Generating and exporting DES keys</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Generating and exporting DES keys</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>), <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrkx"/>: Generating and exporting DES
keys</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>This verb uses a trusted block to generate or export DES keys. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>DES keys<indexterm>generating and exporting</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>generating DES keys</indexterm>
<indexterm>exporting DES keys</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>To create a trusted block, see <xref href="wskc_r_tbc.dita#l0wskc02_tbc"/>. <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkx"/> accepts as input parameters a trusted
block, a public-key certificate and certificate parameters, a transport key, a rule ID to identify
the appropriate rule section to be used within a trusted block, an importer key, a source key,
optional extra data that can be used as part of the OAEP key-wrapping process, and key-check
parameters used to calculate an optional key-check value.</p>
<p>This verb validates all input parameters for generate and export operations. After the verb
performs the input parameter validation, the remaining steps depend on whether the generate option
or the export option is specified in the selected rule of the trusted block.</p>
<p>This is a high-level description of the remaining processing steps for generate and export.</p></section>
<section id="genop">
<title>Processing for generate operation</title>
<p> The verb performs these steps for the generate operation: </p>
<ol>
<li>Generates a random value for the generated key, K. The generated key length specified by the
selected rule determines the key length.</li>
<li id="l0wskc02_rkx_gen_s2">XORs the output key variant with the randomly generated key K from the
previous step, if the selected rule contains a common export key parameters subsection and the
output key variant length is greater than zero. Adjusts the result to have valid DES key
parity.</li>
<li>Continues with <xref href="#l0wskc253/finalcommon" format="dita"/>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="exportop">
<title>Processing for export operation</title>
<p> The verb performs these steps for the export operation: </p>
<ol>
<li>If the selected rule contains a transport key rule reference subsection, verifies that the rule
ID in the transport key rule reference subsection matches the rule ID in the token identified by the
<parmname>transport_key_identifier</parmname> parameter, provided that the token is an RKX
key-token. For more information on RKX key tokens, see <xref
href="wskc_r_l0wskc03_xrkx_des.dita#l0wskc03_xrkx_des"/>.</li>
<li>Verifies that the length of the transport key variant in the transport key variant subsection of
the selected rule is greater than or equal to the length of the key identified by the
<parmname>transport_key_identifier</parmname> parameter.</li>
<li>Verifies that the key token identified by the <parmname>importer_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter is of key type IMPORTER, if the <parmname>source_key_identifier</parmname> parameter
identifies an external <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> DES
key-token.</li>
<li>Recovers the clear value of the source key, K, identified by the
<parmname>source_key_identifier</parmname> parameter.</li>
<li>Verifies that the length of key K is between the export key minimum length and export key
maximum length specified in the common export key parameters subsection of the selected rule.</li>
<li id="l0wskc02_rkx_exp_s6">XORs the output key variant with the randomly generated key K from the
previous step, if the selected rule contains a common export key parameters subsection and the
output key variant length is greater than zero. Adjusts the result to have valid DES key
parity.</li>
<li>Uses the public key in the trusted block to verify the digital signature embedded in the
certificate variable if the <parmname>certificate_length</parmname> variable is greater than zero.
Any necessary certificate objects are located with information from the
<parmname>certificate_parms</parmname> variable. Returns an error if the signature verification
fails.</li>
<li>XORs the transport key variant with the clear value of the transport key (recovered in the
previous step) if the selected rule contains a transport key variant subsection and the output key
variant length is greater than zero. Adjusts the result to have valid DES key parity.</li>
<li>Continues with <xref href="#l0wskc253/finalcommon" format="dita"/>.</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="finalcommon">
<title>Final processing common to generate and export operations</title>
<ol>
<li>Based on the symmetric encrypted output key format flag of the selected rule, returns the
encrypted result in the token identified by the
<synph><var>sym_encrypted_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter: <ul>
<li>of <xref href="#l0wskc253/genop"/>, step 2, or of <xref href="#l0wskc253/exportop" format="dita"
/>, step 6, into an RKX key-token, if the flag indicates to return an RKX key-token.</li>
<li>using the resulting key from <xref href="#l0wskc253/exportop" format="dita"/>, step 6 into a CCA
DES key-token and returns it in the token identified by the
<synph><var>sym_encrypted_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter, if the flag indicates to return a
CCA DES key-token.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>Encrypts the key result from <xref href="#l0wskc253/genop" format="dita"/>, step 2 or from <xref
href="#l0wskc253/exportop" format="dita"/>, step 6, with the format specified, if the asymmetric
encrypted output key format flag of the selected rule indicates to output an asymmetric encrypted
key <ph rev="sh15">and return it to the <parmname>asym_encrypted_key</parmname> parameter.</ph></li>
<li>Returns the computed key-check value as determined by the key-check algorithm identifier if the
key-check algorithm identifier in the specified rule indicates to compute a key-check value. The
value is returned in the <parmname>key_check_value</parmname> variable.</li>
</ol>
</section>
</refbody></reference>