<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_appdpkcs1form">
<title>PKCS #1 hash formats</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>PKCS #1 hash formats</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword>): PKCS #1 hash formats</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Version 2.0 <ph rev="sh16">and 2.1</ph> of the PKCS #1 standard defines methods for
formatting keys and hashes prior to RSA encryption of the resulting data structures. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>PKCS #1 hash formats</indexterm>
<indexterm>hash formats<indexterm>PKCS #1</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>OAEP</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p> The earlier versions of the PKCS #1 standard <fn id="l0wskc02_pkcs1" rev="sh16">PKCS standards
can be retrieved from <xref
href="http://www.emc.com/emc-plus/rsa-labs/standards-initiatives/public-key-cryptography-standards.htm"
format="html" scope="external"/>.</fn> defined block types 0, 1, and 2, but in the current standard
that terminology is dropped.</p>
<p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> implemented these processes
using the terminology of the Version 2.0 standard: <ul>
<li>For formatting keys for secured transport (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdsg"/>, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/>): <ul>
<li>RSAES-OAEP, the preferred method for key-encipherment when exchanging <fn id="l0wskc02_oaep">The
PKA 92 method and the method incorporated into the SET standard are other examples of the Optimal
Asymmetric Encryption Padding (OAEP) technique. The OAEP technique is attributed to Bellare and
Rogaway.</fn> DATA keys between systems. Keyword <synph><kwd>PKCSOAEP</kwd></synph> (Version 2.0)
and <synph><kwd>PKOAEP2</kwd></synph> (Version 2.1) is used to invoke this formatting technique. The
<codeph>P</codeph> parameter described in the standard is not used and its length is set to zero. </li>
<li>RSAES-PKCS1-v1_5, is an older method for formatting keys. It is included for compatibility with
existing applications. Keyword <synph><kwd>PKCS-1.2</kwd></synph> is used to invoke this formatting
technique.</li>
</ul></li>
<li> For formatting hashes for digital signatures (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdsg"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdsv"/>): <ul>
<li>RSASSA-PKCS1-v1_5, the newer name for the block-type 1 format. Keyword
<synph><kwd>PKCS-1.1</kwd></synph> is used to invoke this formatting technique. </li>
<li>The PKCS #1 specification no longer describes the use of block-type 0. Keyword
<synph><kwd>PKCS-1.0</kwd></synph> is used to invoke this formatting technique. Use of block-type 0
is discouraged. </li>
</ul></li>
</ul></p>
<p>Using the terminology from older versions of the PKCS #1 standard, block types 0 and 1 are used
to format a hash and block type 2 is used to format a DES key. The blocks consist of the following
(<q>||</q> means concatenation): </p>
<ul>
<li><ph>X'00'</ph> || BT || PS || <ph>X'00'</ph> || D <p>where:</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>BT</dt>
<dd>Is the block type, <ph>X'00'</ph>, <ph>X'01'</ph>, or <ph>X'02'</ph>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PS</dt>
<dd>Is the padding of as many bytes as required to make the block the same length as the modulus of
the RSA key. Padding of <ph>X'00'</ph> is used for block type 0, <ph>X'FF'</ph> for block type 1,
and random and non-<ph>X'00'</ph> for block type 2. The length of PS must be a minimum of eight
bytes.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>D</dt>
<dd>Is the key, or the concatenation of the BER-encoded hash identifier and the hash value.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></li>
</ul>
<p>You can create the ASN.1 BER encoding of an MD5, SHA-1, or SHA-256 value by attaching these
strings at the beginning of the 16-byte or 20-byte hash values, respectively: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>MD5</dt>
<dd><codeph>X'3020300C 06082A86 4886F70D 02050500 0410'</codeph></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SHA-1</dt>
<dd><codeph>X'30213009 06052B0E 03021A05 000414'</codeph></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>SHA-256</dt>
<dd><codeph>X'3031300D 06096086 48016503 04020105 000420'</codeph></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</conbody></concept>
