<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_utilities" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Utilities</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Utilities</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Utilities</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can use a utility to verify an installation. An additional utility is available to
administer cryptographic coprocessors in setups without a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atkews"/>.</shortdesc><?Pub Caret 0?>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>utilities<indexterm>panel.exe</indexterm><indexterm>ivp.e</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>panel.exe</indexterm><indexterm>ivp.e</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>These two utilities are called <cmdname>ivp.e</cmdname> and <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname>.</p>
<dl><dlentry>
<dt>ivp.e</dt>
<dd>This is an easy-to-use utility used to verify an installation. <p>It calls the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> verb for all available adapters to
report the firmware and configuration details.</p><p>This utility is installed by default to the
following path in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> system:
</p><p><filepath>/opt/IBM/CCA/bin/ivp.e</filepath></p><p>You can invoke this utility without any
arguments. It presents information for all available CEX*C features on the system.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>panel.exe</dt>
<dd>This utility provides a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/>
native mechanism for administering and initializing certain characteristics of active <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cryptocoprocs"/>. It is intended as a basic
administration tool for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/>-only
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm_z_systems"/> configurations, where a
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/tke_only"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>) solution is not available. <ph
rev="sh18i1">Note that <ph conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/panexe"> co</ph> only
covers some basic functions, but not the complete scope of a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atkews"/>. </ph><p>For mixed <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zos"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> configurations, it is recommended that
administration be accomplished using the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zos"/> TSO panels as described in the <xref
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#links/icsf_admin_guide"/>. The utility is installed by the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cryptocoproc"/>
<ph rev="sh18i2">(RPM or DEB install package)</ph> to this path in the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linux"/> system:
</p><p><filepath>/opt/IBM/<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>/bin/panel.exe</filepath></p><note type="important" rev="sh18i1"> As of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 6.0, the
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> interface has changed to offer a new default interface. The former
interface is still available if the environment variable CSU_LEGACY_PANEL is set as follows:
<codeblock>export CSU_LEGACY_PANEL=TRUE</codeblock><p>Go back to the new
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> interface:</p><codeblock>unset CSU_LEGACY_PANEL</codeblock><p>Be aware
that CEX6C and newer functionality of <cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> is only available from the
default interface.</p>
</note><p>There is more detailed information in <xref href="wskc_c_panelexe.dita#l0wskc02_panelexe"
/>.</p></dd>
</dlentry></dl>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003256?>
