<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_zapgtblk">
<title>Trusted blocks</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Trusted blocks</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Trusted blocks</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>A <i>key token</i> is a data structure that contains
information about a key and usually contains a key or keys.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>trusted block</indexterm>
<indexterm>external key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>external key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>transport key</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>A trusted block is an extension of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key tokens using new section identifiers.
Trusted blocks are an integral part of a remote key-loading process. See <xref
href="wskc_c_rkload.dita#l0wskc02_rkload"/>.</p></section>
<section><p>In general, a key that is available to an application program or held in key storage is
multiply-enciphered by some other key. When a key is enciphered by the CCA node's master key, the
key is designated an internal key and is held in an internal key-token structure. Therefore, an
<i>internal key token</i> or <i>internal trusted block</i> is used to hold a key and its related
information for use at a specific <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
node.</p></section>
<section><p>An <term>external key token</term> or <term>external trusted block</term> is used to communicate
a key between nodes, or to hold a key in a form not enciphered by a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> master key. DES keys and PKA private-keys
contained in an external key-token or external trusted block are multiply-enciphered by a
<i>transport key</i>. In a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> node, a
transport key is a double-length DES key encrypting key <ph>(KEK)</ph>.</p></section>
<section><p>Trusted blocks contain various items, some of which are optional, and some of which can be
present in different forms. Tokens are composed of concatenated sections that, unlike <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> PKA key tokens, occur in no prescribed
order.</p></section>
<section><p>As with other <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key-tokens, both
internal and external forms are defined: <ul>
<li>An external trusted block contains a randomly generated confounder and a triple-length MAC key
enciphered under a DES IMP-PKA transport key. The MAC key is used to calculate an ISO 16609 CBC mode
TDES MAC of the trusted block contents. An external trusted block is created by the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtbc"/> verb. This verb can: <ol>
<li>Create an inactive external trusted block</li>
<li>Change an external trusted block from inactive to active</li>
</ol>
</li>
<li>An internal trusted block contains a confounder and triple-length MAC key enciphered under a
variant of the PKA master key. The MAC key is used to calculate a TDES MAC of the trusted block
contents. A PKA master-key verification pattern is also included to enable determination that the
proper master key is available to process the key. The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkx"/> verb only operates on trusted blocks
that are internal. An internal trusted block must be imported from an external trusted block that is
active using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpki"/> verb.</li>
</ul><note>Trusted blocks do not contain a private key section.</note></p></section>
</refbody></reference>