<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csnbddpgdeterm" rev="sh15">
  <title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmddpg"/> (<keyword
      conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclddpg"/>)</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmddpg"/> (<keyword
      conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclddpg"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclddpg"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmddpg"/> service
    to generate a PIN and PIN reference value or word (PRW) using an AES PIN calculation key. The
    PIN reference value is used to verify the PIN in other services.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclddpg"/> (<keyword
            conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmddpg"/>)</indexterm>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmddpg"/> (<keyword
            conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclddpg"/>)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
              conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmddpg"/> (<keyword
              conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclddpg"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>PIN reference word/value (PRW)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>PRW (PIN reference word/value)</indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <note>The PIN generation process uses the account information to calculate the PIN. If the
        process generates a PIN that appears in the weak PIN table, it rejects that PIN, increments
        the rightmost byte of the account information by 1, and generates another PIN. The PIN
        generation process continues to increment the byte until an acceptable PIN is generated. For
        additional information, see <xref href="wskc_dk_weak_pin_table.dita#weak_pin_table"
        />.</note>
      <p>You can use this service to perform the following tasks:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Generate an encrypted PIN block in PBF-1 format with a PIN print key to be printed on a
          PIN mailer.</li>
        <li>Generate a PRW which can be used to verify the PIN.</li>
        <li>Optionally, generate an encrypted PIN block in PBF-1 format to be stored for later use
          in personalizing replacement cards.</li>
      </ul>
<p><b>Weak PINs:</b> The PIN generation process uses the account information to calculate the PIN.
During the PIN generation process, if a generated PIN is found in the weak PIN table, it is
rejected; the process increments the rightmost byte of the account information by 1 and generates
another PIN. The process repeats itself until a suitable PIN is generated.</p>
<note rev="sh20i1">This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> 
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note>
</section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
