<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_spnrequired">
<title>Required commands</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclspn"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclspn"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclspn"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This verb requires the <cmdname>Secure Messaging for PINs</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'0274'</ph>) to be enabled in the active role.</p></section>
<section><p>The following three commands at offsets X'0350', X'0351', and X'0352' affect how PIN processing
is performed as described below: <ol>
<li>Enable the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'0350'</ph>) in the active role to apply additional restrictions to PIN processing implemented
in CCA 4.1.0, as follows: <ul>
<li>Constrain use of <synph><kwd>ISO-2</kwd></synph> PIN blocks to offline PIN verification and PIN
change operations in integrated circuit card environments only. Specifically, do not allow
<synph><kwd>ISO-2</kwd></synph> input or output PIN blocks.</li>
<li>Do not reformat a PIN-block format that includes a PAN into a PIN-block format that does not
include a PAN.</li>
<li>Do not allow a change of PAN data. Specifically, when performing translations between PIN block
formats that both include PAN data, do not allow the <synph><var>input_PAN_data</var></synph> and
<synph><var>output_PAN_data</var></synph> variables to be different from the PAN data enciphered in
the input PIN block.</li>
</ul>
<note>A role with offset <ph>X'0350'</ph> enabled also affects access control of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> and the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verbs.</note></li>
<li>Enable the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Allow modification of PAN</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'0351'</ph>) in the active role to override the restriction to not allow a change of PAN data.
This override is applicable only when either the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block
restrictions</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0350'</ph>) or the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Allow only
ANSI PIN blocks</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0352'</ph>) or both are enabled in the active role.
This override is to support account number changes in issuing environments. Offset <ph>X'0351'</ph>
has no effect if neither offset <ph>X'0350'</ph> nor offset <ph>X'0352'</ph> is enabled in the
active role. <note>A role with offset <ph>X'0351'</ph> enabled also affects access control of the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verbs.</note></li>
<li>Enable the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Allow only ANSI PIN blocks</cmdname> command (offset
<ph>X'0352'</ph>) in the active role to apply a more restrictive variation of the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8
PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</cmdname> command (offset <ph>X'0350'</ph>). In addition to the
previously described restrictions of offset <ph>X'0350'</ph>, this command also restricts the
<synph><var>input_PIN_profile</var></synph> and the <synph><var>output_PIN_profile</var></synph> to
contain only ISO-0, ISO-1, and ISO-3 PIN block formats. Specifically, the <tm trademark="IBM"
tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624 PIN-block format is not allowed with this command. Offset
<ph>X'0352'</ph> overrides offset <ph>X'0350'</ph>. <note>A role with offset <ph>X'0352'</ph>
enabled also affects access control of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verbs.</note></li>
</ol></p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow PIN block format ISO-1</cmdname> access control is enabled in the domain role, 
the PIN block format in the <parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname> and <parmname>output_PIN_profile</parmname> 
parameters is not allowed to be <keyword>ISO-1</keyword>.</p></section>
<section><p>For more information, see <xref href="wskc_c_x98_rest.dita#l0wskc02_x98_rest"/>.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>
