<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csnbfped">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/>)</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/> verb is used
to decrypt payment card data for the Visa Data Secure Platform (VDSP) processing. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p rev="sh21i1">The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/> verb uses the TDES
(Triple-DES) algorithm with cipher block chaining (CBC). It supports two options:</p>
<ul>
<li>The standard encryption option.</li>
<li>The<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vfpe"/>  (VFPE) option.</li>
</ul>
<p rev="sh21i1">If the standard encryption option was selected, the plain text data was formatted into blocks and then
encrypted with triple-DES encryption with a static TDES key or a DUKPT double length data encryption
key. For the decryption operation, the data blocks must be decrypted and unblocked to produce the
plaintext. If the data was encrypted with the VFPE option, the data was encrypted in place without
changing the data type or length of the field and DUKPT key management is used.</p> 
<p> The verb can be used to decipher one or all of the following fields: </p>
<sl>
<sli>the primary account number (PAN),</sli>
<sli>the cardholder name,</sli>
<sli>the Track 1 Discretionary Data,</sli>
<sli>the Track 2 Discretionary Data.</sli>
</sl>
<p>Also refer to <xref href="wskc_vfpe_concept.dita#vfpe_concept"><cite>Visa Format-Preserving
Encryption supporting information</cite></xref>. </p>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/> verb returns the
enciphered fields and optionally the DUKPT PIN key, if DUKPT key management is selected. </p>
<note type="other" othertype="Terminology">The VDSP specification speaks of two key management
methods: <term>DUKPT (derived unique key per transaction)</term> and <term>Zone Encryption
Keys</term>. The process for deriving these keys is documented in ANS X9.24 Part 1. <term>Zone
Encryption Keys</term> are called <term>static keys</term> in <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>. Static keys are presented for use and are
not derived during verb processing. They are double length TDES keys for this service which are
called <term>static TDES keys</term> in this document.</note>
<note>This verb supports <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/>
compliant-tagged key tokens.</note>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
