<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_hardwareneeds" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Hardware requirements</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Hardware requirements</navtitle>
<searchtitle/>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>In order to make use of the verbs provided in the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>) API for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/>, your hardware must meet certain
minimum requirements. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>hardware requirements</indexterm><indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/></indexterm><indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atkews"/></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcfq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>sysfs interface</indexterm><indexterm>z/VM</indexterm><indexterm>APAR
fixes<indexterm>z/VM</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>Central Processor
Assist for Cryptographic Functions (CPACF)</indexterm><indexterm>CPACF</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>This is the minimum supported hardware configuration: </p>
<ul>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zec12"/></li>
<li>One CEXC4 feature, with one CEXC4 adapter mapped to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> image or LPAR that uses it. The CEXC4 must
have <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 4.2.0z or greater firmware
loaded, configured in co-processor mode. </li>
<li>If you plan to use a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/tke_only"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/>) workstation, you must have a
TKE V9.2 or later to exploit CEX7C adapters and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/>. <ul>
<li>You need a TKE 7.2 workstation or higher in order to see supported CEX4C adapters. </li>
<li>A TKE V8.0 workstation is required to manage CEX5C adapters.</li>
<li>A TKE V9.1 workstation is required to manage CEX6C adapters, especially to start exploiting
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016mode"/>.</li>
<li>A TKE V9.2 workstation is required to manage CEX7C adapters.</li>
</ul><p>For more detailed information about required <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/atke"/> versions for accessing the various
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> features, see <xref
href="wskc_c_ch1dual.dita#l0wskc02_ch1dual"/>.</p></li>
</ul>
<p>This is the maximum supported hardware configuration:</p>
<ul rev="sh20i2">
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibmz15"/><ul>
<li>60 CEX7S adapters total in the machine. The CEX7S card is available as 1-port or 2-port feature.
The maximum number of combined features of all types cannot exceed 60 HSMs on an <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibmz15"/> T01. This means the maximum number for
feature code 0898 is 30, for all other (single HSM) types is 16 when installed exclusively (see
<xref href="https://www.oreilly.com/library/view/ibm-z15-8561/9780738458120/" format="html"
scope="external"><cite><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibmz15"/> (8561)
Technical Guide</cite></xref>).</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<p>This hardware configuration is also supported: </p>
<ul>
<li rev="sh20i2"><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmz14"/>
<ul rev="sh20i2">
<li>up to 16 CEX5S and CEX6S adapters total in the machine</li>
</ul></li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ibm"/>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/z13"/><ul>
<li>16 CEX5S adapters total in the machine</li>
<li>all 16 adapters may also be mapped to an LPAR, up to 85 total LPARs</li>
<li>there is one adapter per feature code.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul>
<p>See <xref href="wskc_c_ch1concur.dita#l0wskc02_ch1concur"/> for details about a mixed environment
of <ph rev="sh20i2">CEX7S</ph> and previous <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> features. Note that CEX4Cs are only
supported by TKE 7.2 or later if the <ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_linuxs"/> driver reports
them as CEX4s.</p>
<p>To determine whether a Crypto Express adapter available to <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/> is a CEX4C, a CEX5C, CEX6C, or a <ph
rev="sh20i2">CEX7C</ph>, see <xref
href="wskc_c_multico.dita#l0wskc02_multico/ListingCCACoprocessors"/>.</p>
<p> Apply the following APAR fixes on the appropriate <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> systems to achieve the applicable <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cryptocoproc"/> support: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM64727</dt>
<dd>Fixes problem with shared coprocessors.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM64793</dt>
<dd>Introduces protected key CPACF support.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>On <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> 6.2, apply the following
APAR fixes: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM65007</dt>
<dd>Introduces Crypto Express4 support.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM65577</dt>
<dd>Introduces Crypto Express5 support.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>On <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> 6.3, apply the following
APAR fixes: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM65577</dt>
<dd>Introduces Crypto Express5 support.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM65942</dt>
<dd>Introduces Crypto Express6 support.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>On <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> 6.4, apply the following
APAR fix: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM65942</dt>
<dd>Introduces Crypto Express6 support.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>On <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> 6.4 or 7.1, apply the
following APAR fix: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>VM66248</dt>
<dd>Provides z/VM compatibility support for IBM z15 and LinuxONE III servers. Also introduces Crypto
Express7 support.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p rev="sh21i3">On <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> 7.1 or 7.2,
apply the following APAR fix: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry rev="sh21i3">
<dt>VM66481</dt>
<dd>This APAR fixes code introduced with <xref
href="http://www-01.ibm.com/support/docview.wss?uid=isg1VM66266" format="html" scope="external"
>VM66266</xref>. CRYGQBUF storage obtained in the crypto scan routine is released when it is no
longer needed. VM66266 introduces dynamic changes to the cryptographic environment on a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/zvm"/> system. This allows the addition or removal
of Crypto Express adapters, as well as maintenance and repair of Crypto Express adapters, to be less
disruptive to the system and guests running on the system. </dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<!--For new editions: get z/VM APAR information from Les Geer:  Leslie Geer III/Endicott/IBM **** Also check: http://www.vm.ibm.com/newfunction/  -->
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000004939?>
