<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_appareascod12" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Reason codes that accompany return code 12</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Reason codes that accompany return code 12</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Reason codes that accompany return code
12</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Reason codes that accompany return code 12</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>reason codes<indexterm>with return code 12</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The codes are listed in <xref
href="#l0wskc02_appareascod12/l0wskc02_rcrc12"></xref>. <table
id="l0wskc02_rcrc12" pgwide="1"><title>Reason codes for return code
12</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">Reason codes for return code
12</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="3"><colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/><colspec
colname="col2" colwidth="6*"/><colspec colname="col3" colwidth="33*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Return code, decimal</entry>
<entry>Reason code, decimal (hex)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>097 (061) </entry>
<entry>File space in key storage is insufficient to
complete the operation. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>196 (0C4) </entry>
<entry>The device driver, the security server, or the
directory server is not installed or is not active. File permissions
are not valid for your application. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>197 (0C5) </entry>
<entry>There is a key-storage file I/O error or the
file is not found.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>206 (0CE)  </entry>
<entry>The key-storage file is not valid or the master-key
verification failed. There is an unlikely, but possible, synchronization
problem with the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"></keyword> verb.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>207 (0CF) </entry>
<entry>The verification method flags in the profile
are not valid. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>319 (13F) </entry>
<entry>Passed to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcsv"></keyword> or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcsg"></keyword> verb,
the Verb Unique data corresponds to a PAN length of 19, but the overall
length is wrong. This indicates that the host code is out of date.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>324 (144) </entry>
<entry>There is insufficient memory available to process
your request, either memory in the host computer or memory inside
the coprocessor including the flash EPROM used to store keys, profiles,
and other application data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>338 (152) </entry>
<entry>This cryptographic hardware device driver is
not installed or is not responding, or the CCA code is not loaded
in the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>764 (2FC)</entry>
<entry>The master keys are not loaded and, therefore,
a key cannot be recovered or enciphered.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>768 (300) </entry>
<entry>One or more paths for key-storage directory
operations are improperly specified.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>769 (301) </entry>
<entry>An internal error has occurred with the parameters
to a cryptographic algorithm.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2007 (7D7) </entry>
<entry>The change type in the Pending Change Buffer
is not recognized.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2015 (7DF)</entry>
<entry>The domain stored in the domain mask does not
match what was included as the domain in the CPRB.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2017 (7E1) </entry>
<entry>The operation is attempting to call 'SET' for
a master key, but has passed an invalid Master Key Verification Pattern.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2021 (7E5) </entry>
<entry>The card is disabled in the TKE path.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2037 (7F5) </entry>
<entry>Invalid domain specified.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2043 (7FB)</entry>
<entry>In the course of TKE communication
through the host library to an adapter, a particular requested OA
certificate was not found.  A small number of these errors are typical
when communication with a TKE is initiated.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2045 (7FD)   </entry>
<entry>The CCA software is unable to claim a semaphore.
The system might be short of resources. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2046 (7FE) </entry>
<entry>The CCA software is unable to list all the keys.
The limit of 500,000 keys might have been reached. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2049 (801)</entry>
<entry>An error occurred while unlocking a semaphore
in order to release the exclusive control of that semaphore.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2073 (819) </entry>
<entry>TKE command received when TKE disabled.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2074 (81A)</entry>
<entry>Invalid version found in Connectivity Programming
Request/Reply Block (CPRB).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2101 (835)</entry>
<entry>Invalid AES flags in the function control vector
(FCV).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2117 (845)</entry>
<entry>Thread specific CLiC objects are not in proper
state.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2155 (86B)</entry>
<entry>The length of the fully qualified dataset name
exceeds the maximum size that the verb can process.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="shfin">
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2225 (8B1)</entry>
<entry>An internal outbound authentication manager error
occurred, or the OA manager is disabled.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>3046 (BE6)</entry>
<entry>The wrong usage was attempted in an operation
with a retained key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>2242 (8C2)</entry>
<entry>The reply message block is too long for the host buffer.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh21i1">
<entry>12</entry>
<entry>3550 (DDE)</entry>
<entry>The Dilithium operation failed because the minimum hardware requirement was not met.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000007166?>
