<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_ch1concur" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Concurrent installations</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Concurrent installations</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Concurrent installations</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc rev="sh15">These are background considerations for installation of the <ph rev="sh20i2"
><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 7.1 RPM for a CEX7S</ph>
alongside with earlier <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/>
RPMs.</shortdesc><?Pub Caret 85?>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>concurrent installations</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"></keyword></indexterm>
<indexterm>environment variable<indexterm>key storage</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>key storage</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<ol>
<li>The <synph><kwd>libcsulcca.so</kwd></synph> and <synph><kwd>libcsulsapi.so</kwd></synph>
libraries for <ph rev="sh21i1"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
7.3</ph> and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 6.* have many symbols
with the same names. An application cannot deterministically link with both libraries. The first
library in the link statement is used for all symbols that can be resolved there, after that the
second library will be examined. At this point, either the linker will not allow the link to
continue by throwing an error on the duplicate symbols, or will produce a hybrid-linked application.
Either case gives the user the wrong answer. <p>A new or updated library cannot itself resolve this
kind of conflict because: <ul>
<li>There is no way to have a default set of symbols or card support in an updated host library. The
link operation is a fundamental step in building the customer application and outside the control of
the library or library installation process.</li>
<li>One way to resolve name collisions is to change all of the function names in the new library.
However, this would have greatly impacted the customer's ability to port applications forward, and
this option was rejected.</li>
</ul></p></li>
<li>The key storage environment variables in the default user profile
(<codeph>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.sh</codeph> and <codeph>/etc/profile.d/csulcca.csh</codeph>) are
changed at installation time to point to the <filepath>/opt/IBM/CCA/keys/</filepath> path. Softlinks
are added to older default installation paths to assist migration, but double-check that all of your
key storage is accessible.</li>
<li>See <xref href="wskc_c_ibdccpacf.dita#l0wskc02_ibdccpacf"/> for a concurrency and CPACF.</li>
</ol>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002850?>
