<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept id="acodas_defrole_conts" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16">
<title>Default role contents</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Default role contents</navtitle>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Default role contents</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read about the purpose and characteristics of the default role.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>access control data structures<indexterm>DEFAULT role</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DEFAULT role<indexterm> contents</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>contents of the DEFAULT role</indexterm>
<indexterm>function control
vector<indexterm>load</indexterm><indexterm>clear</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DEFALTXX</indexterm>
<indexterm>DFLTXXxx</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>You can use the default role from a CEX*C coprocessor to access a certain domain in order to
process the appropriate verbs that are allowed by the ACP list assigned to that role. Using the TKE,
you can adapt the default role according to your needs for each domain that you want to access and
thus use one role for each domain. The name that you apply to a default role for a domain depends on
the domain number. </p>
<p>There are two variants for naming the default role for a domain on an S390 system:
<codeph>DEFALTXX</codeph> and <codeph>DFLTXXXX</codeph>, where the <codeph>XX</codeph> or
<codeph>XXXX</codeph> stand for a multi-digit decimal number indicating the domain number. The
<codeph>DFLTXXXX</codeph> naming scheme was introduced for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/z13"/> machines.</p>
<p>
<b>Examples: </b><ul compact="yes" rev="sh18i2">
<li><codeph>DEFALT02</codeph> is the default role ID for domain 2 on a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/z10"/> machine (CEX3C or CEX4C).</li>
<li><codeph>DFLT0052</codeph> is the default role ID for domain 52 on a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/z13"/> (CEX5C) or on a <ph
conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_z14"/> (CEX6C).</li>
</ul></p>
<p>The role ID names are always 8 characters, ASCII. Role names on some platforms and through some
interfaces may end with ASCII space characters (0x20), therefore every input mechanism is designed
to explicitly allow space characters.</p>
<p rev="sh18i2">See a list of the current roles: <screen># panel.exe --list-roles</screen>
</p>
<p>The default role has the following characteristics:</p>
<ul>
<li>The required authentication strength level is zero.</li>
<li>The role is valid at all times and on all days of the week.</li>
<li>The only functions that are permitted are those related to access control initialization. This
guarantees that the owner initializes the coprocessor before any cryptographic work can be done.
This requirement prevents security accidents in which unrestricted default authority might
accidentally be left intact when the system is put into service.</li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003873?>
