<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_ktr1required">
<title>Required commands</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts><shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>DATA</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This verb requires the <cmdname>Key Translate</cmdname> command (offset X'001F') to be enabled in
the active role.</p></section>
<section rev="sh20i1">
<p>In releases before Release 5.4 and Release 6.2, triple-length TDES keys are not supported, thus
limiting an outbound TDES key to double length. Beginning with Release 5.4, triple-length TDES keys
are supported, and an outbound TDES key can be double-length or triple-length. This makes it
possible for data that is encrypted using a triple-length key to be translated to data encrypted
using a weaker double-length key. Such a translation reduces the security of the data and causes a
security exposure, and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> normally
restricts such a translation from occurring. To override this restriction, the <cmdname>Translate
from DES Key to Weaker DES Key</cmdname> command (offset X’01C3’) must be enabled in the active
role.</p>
<note>This command affects multiple verbs. See <xref href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"/>.</note>
<p rev="sh20i1">Also, beginning with Release 5.4 and Release 6.2, it is possible to do a translation
using an output key that is weaker than the input key. To disallow this, set the command shown in
<xref href="#l0wskc02_ktr1required/kek_algo_table" format="dita"/>: <table id="kek_algo_table"
><title>Disallow translation to a weaker key</title><tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="4*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Algorithm of input KEK key</entry>
<entry>Algorithm of output KEK key</entry>
<entry>Command offset (Release 5.4 or later)</entry>
<entry>Command to disallow translation using a weaker key</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>DES</entry>
<entry>DES</entry>
<entry>X'01C7'</entry>
<entry>Disallow Translation from a DES Key to a Weaker DES Key</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table><note>This command affects multiple verbs. See <xref
href="wskc_r_apn.dita#l0wskc02_apn"/>.</note></p>
</section>
</refbody></reference>
