<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_appbdesextkeytok">
<title>DES external key token</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>DES external key token</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): DES external key token</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The format for a DES external key token. DES key tokens are almost always in a 
fixed-length token, except for a DESUSECV key type in a variable-length symmetric key token.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>external key token<indexterm>DES</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES external key token format</indexterm>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>DES<indexterm>external</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p><xref href="#l0wskc02_appbdesextkeytok/l0wskc02_extky"/> shows the format for a DES external
key token.
<table id="l0wskc02_extky" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>DES
external key token format</title><desc><p outputclass="summary">DES external key token format</p></desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="8*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Bytes</entry>
<entry>Description</entry></row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry><ph>X'02'</ph> (flag indicating an
external key token)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>1</entry>
<entry>Reserved (<ph>X'00'</ph>)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>2 - 3</entry>
<entry>Implementation-dependent bytes (<ph>X'0000'</ph> for
CCA)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>4</entry>
<entry>Key token version number (<ph>X'00'</ph> or <ph>X'01'</ph>)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>5</entry>
<entry>Reserved (<ph>X'00'</ph>)</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>6</entry>
<entry>Flag byte
<dl compact="yes"><dlhead><dthd>Bit</dthd><ddhd>Meaning When Set On</ddhd></dlhead>
<dlentry><dt>0</dt>
<dd>Encrypted key is present.</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>1</dt>
<dd>Control vector (CV) value has been applied to the key.</dd></dlentry>
</dl>
<p>Other bits are reserved and are binary zeros.</p></entry></row>
<row>
<entry>7</entry>
<entry>Flag byte
<dl compact="yes"><dlhead><dthd>Bit</dthd><ddhd>Meaning When Set On</ddhd></dlhead>
<dlentry><dt>0-2</dt>
<dd>Key value encryption method.
<ul  compact="yes">
<li>000 - The key is encrypted by using the original <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> method (ECB).</li>
<li>001 - The encrypted key is wrapped using the enhanced method and SHA-1 (WRAP-ENH).</li>
<li>010 - The encrypted key is wrapped using the enhanced method and SHA-256 (WRAPENH2). 
Requires CV bit ENH-ONLY to be enabled. Only valid with version X’00’ tokens.</li>
<li rev="sh21i2">011 - The encrypted key is wrapped using the enhanced method 3 and SHA-256
(WRAPENH3). Requires CV bit ENH-ONLY to be enabled. Only valid with version X’00’ tokens.</li>
</ul>
<p rev="sh21i2">All other bit combinations are reserved and undefined and must be zero.</p>
<p>These bits are ignored if the token contains no key or a clear key.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>3-7</dt>
<dd>Reserved.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>8 - 15</entry>
<entry>Reserved (X'0000000000000000')</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>16 - 23</entry>
<entry>Single-length key or left half of
a double-length key, or Part A of a triple-length key. The value is
encrypted under a transport key.</entry></row>
<row>
<entry>24 - 31</entry>
<entry>X'0000000000000000' if a
single-length key or right half of a double-length key, or Part B
of a triple-length key. The right half of a double-length key or Part
B of a triple-length key is encrypted under a transport (key-encrypting
key) for export or import. <ph rev="sh21i2">For WRAPENH3, this field always holds ciphertext in order to obfuscate the length of a single
or double-length key. The CCA coprocessor uses the effective length (determined by the number
of repeated 56-bit sections, if any) of the key to determine key strength for wrapping of other keys
or other key strength comparisons.</ph></entry></row>
<row>
<entry>32 - 39</entry>
<entry>The control vector (CV) for single-length key or the left half of CV for double-length key.
<ph rev="sh21i2">For WRAPENH3, this field has an update to the key form bits (bits 41-42). These
bits always have the value '11', which indicates a triple-length key.</ph></entry></row>
<row>
<entry>40 - 47</entry>
<entry>X'0000000000000000' if a single-length key or the right half of the control vector for a
double-length operational key. <ph rev="sh21i2">For WRAPENH3, this field holds an 8 byte TDES-CMAC
over the entire key block, with this field set to 0x00 bytes before calculation of the
TDES-CMAC.</ph></entry></row>

<row>
<entry>48 - 55</entry>
<entry>X'0000000000000000' if a single-length key, double-length key, or Part C of a triple-length
key. This key part is encrypted under a transport key-encrypting key when flag bit 0 is on.
Otherwise, it is in the clear. <ph rev="sh21i2">For WRAPENH3, this field always holds ciphertext in
order to obfuscate the length of a single or double-length key. </ph></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>56 - 58</entry>
<entry>Reserved (<ph>X'000000'</ph>)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>59</entry>
<entry>Key length for zero CV DATA keys.
<dl compact="yes"><dlhead><dthd>Value</dthd><ddhd>Description</ddhd></dlhead>
<dlentry><dt>B'00000000'</dt>
<dd>Single-length key (version 0 only).</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>B'00010000'</dt>
<dd>Double-length key (version 1 only).</dd></dlentry>
<dlentry><dt>B'00100000'</dt>
<dd>Triple-length key (version 1 only).</dd></dlentry>
</dl>All other values are reserved and undefined.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>60 - 63</entry>
<entry>Token validation value (see <xref href="wskc_r_tvv.dita#l0wskc02_tvv"/> for a description).</entry></row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p></section>
</refbody></reference>
