<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_craparameters" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameter definitions for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"></keyword>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcra"></keyword>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>HCPUACLR</indexterm><indexterm>HCPUAPRT</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"></keyword></indexterm>
<indexterm>CPACF</indexterm><indexterm>CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER</indexterm>
<indexterm>environment variable<indexterm>CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>resource_name_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>resource_name parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"></keyword> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref
href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"></xref>.</p></section>
<section> <parml><plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. This value must be 1.</pd>
</plentry><plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter is a pointer to a string variable containing
an array of keywords. The keywords are eight bytes in length and must be left-aligned and padded on
the right with space characters. The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keyword is described in
<xref href="#l0wskc02_craparameters/l0wskc02_cra_ra"/>. <table frame="all" id="l0wskc02_cra_ra"
pgwide="0">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcra"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="25*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="120*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Cryptographic resource</i></b>
(Required)</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>DEVICE</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies a <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/>
coprocessor by resource number. The <parmname>resource_name</parmname> variable must point to a
buffer containing "CRPxx" where 'xx' is the decimal number of the resource in the range '01' to
'64', with three spaces (hexadecimal 0x20 value) at the end. Note that the
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utility shows the card numbers starting from 0, and the resource number
is obtained by adding '1' to the card number. <p><b>Example:</b> To specify card number 5 as
identified by <cmdname>panel.exe-x</cmdname>, use resource number 6. The user of CSUACRA:"DEVICE"
will set <parmname>resource_name</parmname> to <codeph>"CRP06   "</codeph>, and
<parmname>resource_name_length</parmname> to 8.</p>
</entry> 
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>SERIAL</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies a CEX*C coprocessor by serial number. The <parmname>resource_name</parmname>
variable must point to a buffer containing "xxxxxxxx", the 8 character serial number as shown by the
<cmdname>panel.exe</cmdname> utility or returned by the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcfq"/> verb. Note that the <cmdname>panel.exe
-x</cmdname> command shows the card serial number in this format: 'SER [xxxxxxxx]', along with other
output. <p><b>Example:</b> The serial number is shown by the command <cmdname>panel.exe -x</cmdname>
to be <codeph>xx1234xx</codeph>, as part of this output:
<codeblock>CARD [0: CEX5C] SER [xx1234xx] CCA Vers:Date ....</codeblock> The user of CSUACRA:"SERIAL
" will set <parmname>resource_name</parmname> to <codeph>xx1234xx</codeph>, and
<parmname>resource_name_length</parmname> to 8.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>DEV-ANY</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies to enable the AUTOSELECT option, such that the operating system may
select the CCA coprocessor to be used from the available resources according to its policy. This
selection applies to most verbs, but not all. See <xref href="wskc_c_multico.dita#l0wskc02_multico"/> 
for more information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>HCPUACLR</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of host CPU assist for clear keys. This keyword enables clear
key use of the CPACF, for clear key AES encryption and decryption with hash algorithms: SHA-1,
SHA-224, SHA-256, SHA-384, and SHA-512. This is the default state at the time of the first use of
the CCA library by a PID or TID.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>HCPUAPRT</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of host CPU assist for protected keys. This keyword enables
protected key use of the CPACF for protected key AES and DES, TDES, and MAC. This is
<synph><var>not</var></synph> the default state at the time of the first use of the CCA library by a
PID or TID.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Domain selection</i></b>
(One, optional). The domain to use from the available domains mapped to this operating system instance may be specified.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><b>DOMNxxxx</b></entry>
<entry>Specifies the domain to use for the card specified with this thread. The 'xxxx' part of the
keyword name is replaced by a 4 digit version of the domain number. The maximum domain count is
determined by the platform, the domains available are determined by the system configuration which
is mapping domains from a card to this operating system instance. <p>The <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname>
command shows the available domains and cards. If no domains are shown (only cards) then the
operating system may not support multi-domain mapping. This keyword may be combined with keywords
SERIAL or DEVICE. When this keyword has not been used, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> library uses the domain specified in the
environment variable CSU_DEFAULT_DOMAIN, or if no domain is specified, then the domain used is the
domain given by the <apiname>ap</apiname> device driver.</p><b>Usage examples:</b><ul>
<li>(1) If the domain desired is domain 0, use keyword <codeph>DOMN0000</codeph>.</li>
<li>(2) If the domain desired is domain 65 (decimal), use keyword <codeph>DOMN0065</codeph>.</li>
</ul>
</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>There is an environment variable that also impacts the default card: CSU_DEFAULT_ADAPTER
(see <xref href="wskc_c_multico.dita#l0wskc02_multico"/>). There are also environment variables that
influence CPACF support (see <xref href="wskc_c_cpacf_conopt_envar.dita#l0wskc02_cpacf_conopt_envar"
/>).</p><p>The actual hardware configuration determines what features are available, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> uses what exists if the user sets these
values as desired, with respect to appropriate defaults.</p></pd>
</plentry><plentry>
<pt>resource_name_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <parmname>resource_name_length</parmname> parameter is a pointer to an integer variable
containing the number of bytes of data in the <parmname>resource_name</parmname> variable. The
length must be 1 - 64. </pd>
</plentry><plentry>
<pt>resource_name</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The <parmname>resource_name</parmname> parameter is a pointer to a string variable
containing the name of the coprocessor to be allocated.</pd>
</plentry></parml></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000005919?>
