<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_lgq" rev="sh15">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmlgq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcllgq"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmlgq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcllgq"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcllgq"/>
</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc> Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmlgq"/> verb to
retrieve system log (SYSLOG) message data and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> log message data from the coprocessor.
Syslog data is available for one of the five latest boot cycles (current boot cycle and up to four
previous boot cycles). <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> log message
data is optionally available during the current boot cycle. The verb supports service personnel and
developers in testing and debugging issues.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmlgq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcllgq"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcllgq"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmlgq"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmlgq"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcllgq"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>The SYSLOG for a boot cycle is initially populated with operating system messages and other
startup messages, but more messages are written as <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> encounters errors at log level 12 or above.
A log level of 12 means, that if an error at return code value 12 or higher occurs during the
processing of an operation or during general system processing, then a descriptive message is sent
to the SYSLOG. The log level is configurable, with a default value of 12. If configured to be
logged, messages for return code 4 and return code 8 are saved in volatile memory (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> log) separately from messages in the
SYSLOG. This keeps these messages from overwhelming more important errors and system messages. Each
new boot cycle wipes out any previous <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> log, while the current SYSLOG and up to
four previous boot cycle SYSLOGs are maintained. The <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> log is a circular log. When the log is
full, the oldest messages are replaced as needed with any new messages.</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>