<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="triple_tdes_keys" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh20i1">
<title>Triple-length TDES keys</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Triple-length TDES keys</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Triple-length TDES keys</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The cryptographic keys are grouped into the following categories based on the functions
that they perform.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key types <indexterm>triple-length TDES keys</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>triple-length TDES keys</indexterm>
<indexterm>TDES keys <indexterm>triple-length </indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>two-key TDES</indexterm>
<indexterm>three-key TDES</indexterm>
<indexterm>triple-length key <indexterm>Triple-DES</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>triple-length key <indexterm>TDES</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>double-length key <indexterm>Triple-DES</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>double-length key <indexterm>TDES</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Triple-DES <indexterm>triple-length key</indexterm> <indexterm>double-length key</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>TDES <indexterm>triple-length key</indexterm> <indexterm>double-length key</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Depending on the key type, a DES key can be single, double, or triple in length (triple-length TDES keys
are supported in Release 5.4 or later). A single-length DES key can be used for single DES operations,
while a double-length or triple-length key can be used for Triple-DES (TDES) operations. Assuming unique
key parts, a triple-length TDES key provides far greater protection against an adversary obtaining the clear
value of the enciphered quantity than a double-length TDES or single-length DES key.
</p><note>Three-key TDES keys with unique key parts are strongly recommended to be used whenever
possible for any new applications.
Each DES key type supports double-length keys for TDES (that is, two-key TDES). Beginning with Release
5.4, some DES key types support triple-length keys for TDES (that is, three-key TDES). Table 33 on page
200 defines which key types do and do not support triple-length TDES keys.
</note><table frame="all" rowsep="1" colsep="1" id="bsm_three_key_tdes" rev="rel54"><title>List of
supported and unsupported triple-length TDES key types (Release 5.4 or later)</title><tgroup
cols="3">
<colspec colname="c1" colwidth="5*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colwidth="8*"/>
<colspec colname="c3" colwidth="8*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>DES key category</entry>
<entry>Supported triple-length TDES key types</entry>
<entry>Unsupported triple-length TDES key types</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Data operation keys</entry>
<entry>DATA, CIPHER, DECIPHER, ENCIPHER, MAC, MACVER</entry>
<entry>DATAC, DATAM, DATAMV, CIPHERXI, CIPHERXO, CIPHERXL, SECMSG</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PIN processing keys</entry>
<entry>PINGEN, PINVER, IPINENC, OPINENC </entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Cryptographic variable encrypting keys</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>CVARPINE, CVARDEC, CVARXCVL, CVARXCVR, CVARENC</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Key encrypting keys</entry>
<entry>EXPORTER, IMPORTER, IMP-PKA</entry>
<entry>OKEYXLAT, IKEYXLAT</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Key generating keys</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>KEYGENKY, DKYGENKY </entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000043308?>
