<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_pt2a" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs</navtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Verbs</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc rev="sh16"><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verbs
implement a variety of cryptographic processes and data-security techniques. Each available verb is
documented in detail in a separate topic.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"
/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verb</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section rev="sh16">
<p>For each documented verb, a Java Native Interface (JNI) is defined that you can use for JNI
work.</p>
<note>In this JNI, a new data type <b><i><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnl"/></i></b> is replacing the old type
<b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/></i></b> since <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> version 5.2. Both types inherit from an
abstract class <b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hni"/></i></b>.
Thus, type <b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/></i></b> is
still supported, so you can run existing applications with this deprecated data type. However, start
using type <b><i><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnl"/></i></b> for new
applications instead, because <b><i><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/hnint"/></i></b> may be removed in the future.
</note>
</section>
<section otherprops="pdf"> <p>The following topics are contained: </p> <ul>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_acc.dita"/> describes how to use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> resource control verbs.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_apmky.dita"/> describes
the verbs for generating and maintaining AES, DES, and HMAC cryptographic
keys, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrng"></keyword> verb
(which generates 8-byte random numbers), the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrng2"></keyword> verb
(which generates up to 8192 bytes of random content), and the Secure
Sockets Layer (SSL) security protocol. This chapter also describes
utilities to build DES and AES tokens, generate and translate control
vectors, and describes the PKA verbs that support DES and AES key
distribution.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_apenc.dita"/> describes
the <ph>verbs</ph> for enciphering and deciphering data. </li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_apmac.dita"/> describes
the <ph>verbs</ph> for generating and verifying Message Authentication
Codes (MACs), generating Modification Detection Codes (MDCs) and generating
hashes (SHA-1, MD5, RIPEMD-160).</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_zapgkyst.dita"/> describes
the use of key storage, key tokens, and associated verbs.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_c_appin.dita"/> describes
the verbs for use in support of finance-industry applications. This
includes several categories. <ul>
<li>Verbs for generating, verifying, and translating personal identification
numbers (PINS).</li>
<li>Verbs that generate and verify VISA card verification values and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/amex"></keyword> card
security codes.</li>
<li>Verbs to support smart card applications using the EMV (Europay
MasterCard Visa) standards.</li>
</ul></li>
<li rev="sh15"><xref href="wskc_c_appin_dk.dita"/> contains
 information on financial services that are based on the PIN methods
and requirements specified by the German Banking Industry Committee
(Deutsche Kreditwirtschaft (DK)).</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_tr34.dita"/> describes the verbs that manage TR-34 functions.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_l0wskc03_zapgtr31v.dita"/> describes the verbs that manage
TR-31 functions.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_pk3.dita"/> describes the
verbs that support using digital signatures to authenticate messages.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_pk4.dita"/> describes the
verbs that generate and manage PKA keys.</li>
<li rev="sh15"><xref href="wskc_utility_verbs.dita"/> describes
the  <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmxea"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclxea"></keyword>)
utility. Use this verb to convert text strings from ASCII to EBCDIC
or from  EBCDIC to ASCII.</li>
</ul> </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003570?>
