<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_dsvusage">
<title>Usage notes</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Usage notes</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Usage notes for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts><shortdesc>The usage notes for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsv"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords><!--Insert <indexterm> tags here--></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section rev="sh20i1">
<title>Notes on formatting the message</title>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>ISO-9796</dt>
<dd>The length of the hash must be less than or equal to one-half of the number of bytes required to
contain the modulus of the RSA key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PKCS-1.0 and PKCS-1.1</dt>
<dd>The length of the hash must be 11 bytes shorter than the number of bytes required to contain the
modulus of the RSA key. <p>When the HASH keyword is specified, the hash must be BER encoded. See
<xref href="wskc_c_fhk.dita"/> for a description of the formatting methods.</p>
</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PKCS-PSS</dt>
<dd> The first four bytes of the data parameter will contain the salt length. For more information
on salt lenght, see <xref href="wskc_r_l0wskc105.dita"/>. The remaining bytes of the parameter
contains the hash or message. <p>The hash algorithm and salt length should be provided to you with
the signature. If not, the recommended salt length is 0 or the byte length of the hash
algorithm.</p><p> When the signature verification is done on an accelerator, there is no domain role
and no access control points. The check of the salt length will be performed based on the signature
check rule keywords.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>X9.31</dt>
<dd>There are no restrictions for the hash length or message.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt> ZERO-PAD</dt>
<dd> The length of the hash must be less than or equal to the number of bytes required to contain
the modulus of the RSA key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>ECDSA</dt>
<dd>There are no restrictions for the hash length or message.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>EdDSA</dt>
<dd>The length of the message must be less than or equal to 8192 bytes.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CRDL-DSA</dt>
<dd>The length of the message must be less than or equal to 5000 bytes.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
</refbody></reference>
