<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csnbdpnuprwcard2" rev="sh20i1">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc/>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> verb to update a
PIN reference value or word (PRW) with updated time-sensitive card data (and a newly generated
random number), but without changing either the customer PIN, primary account number, or permanent
card data. The updated PIN reference value and associated PRW random number are returned for later
use by other PIN processes for PIN verification. </p>
<p>In addition to updating a PRW, the verb can optionally use the specified outbound PIN encryption
key to return a new encrypted PIN block (EPB) together with a new PIN block MAC that can be used to
validate the PIN block, a new chip-encrypted PIN block with the specified outbound PIN
chip-encryption key, or both. </p>
<p>Finally, the verb can optionally test the clear PAN recovered from the input encrypted PIN block
by comparing it to the clear PAN provided as input, and report the result in the
<parmname>return_code</parmname> variable. </p>
<note>This verb deprecates the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpnu"
/> verb.</note>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/> verb performs the
following tasks: </p>
<ul>
<li>It verifies the integrity and authenticity of the input PIN by comparing the MAC in the
<parmname>PIN_block_MAC</parmname> variable to the one calculated over the concatenation of the
input encrypted PIN block and permanent card data. The MAC is calculated using CMAC, a block
cipher-based MAC algorithm defined by NIST SP 800-38B, and the inbound encrypted PIN block MAC
key.</li>
<li>It recovers the PBF-1 PIN block from the <parmname>encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> variable using
AES decryption in CBC mode and the inbound PIN encryption key. Then it checks the consistency of the
PIN block, including the PIN length, PIN digits, and PAN digits.</li>
<li>It generates a 4-byte random number and uses the CMAC algorithm with the PRW key to calculate a
PIN reference value based on the random number, the updated time-sensitive data in the
<parmname>card_t_data</parmname> variable, the unchanged permanent data in the
<parmname>card_p_data</parmname> variable, and data from the recovered PIN block. The calculated
value and the random number are returned in the <parmname>new_PIN_reference_value</parmname> and
<parmname>PRW_random_number</parmname> variables.</li>
<li>If <parmname>EPB</parmname> is specified in the rule array: <ol>
<li>AES encrypts the recovered PBF-1 PIN block in CBC mode using the outbound PIN encryption key,
and returns the result in the<parmname> new_encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> variable. </li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/> calculates the MAC over
the concatenation of the new encrypted PIN block and <parmname>card_p_data</parmname> variable using
CMAC and the outbound EPB MAC key, and returns the 8 leftmost, high-order bytes of the result in the
<parmname>new_PIN_block_MAC</parmname> variable. </li>
</ol>This information can be stored for later use in other processes for validation of the PIN and
personalizing smart (chip) cards.</li>
<li>If <parmname>CHIP-EPB</parmname> is specified in the rule array, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/> encrypts the recovered PIN block in
PBF-1 format using AES encryption in CBC mode and the outbound PIN chip encryption key. This
encrypted PIN block can be stored for later use in other processes to personalize smart (chip)
cards.</li>
<li>If <parmname>PANTST</parmname> is specified in the rule array, <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/> tests the equality of the clear PAN
recovered from the <parmname>encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> and the clear PAN provided by the
<parmname>PAN_data</parmname> variable. The verb reports the result in the
<parmname>return_code</parmname> variable. Return code 4 indicates that the clear PAN values are not
equal, while return code 0 indicates that they are equal (success).</li>
</ul>
<note>This verb supports PCI-HSM 2016 compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
