<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_cpacf_conopt" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Access control points that affect <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cpacf"/> protected key operations</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Access control points</navtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Access control points that affect
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cpacf"/> protected key operations for
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>There are certain access points that enable the protected key feature.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>CPACF <indexterm>access control points</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>access control points <indexterm>CPACF</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>High-performance secure DES keys</indexterm>
<indexterm>DES key</indexterm><indexterm>DES
key<indexterm>translation</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>High-performance secure AES keys</indexterm><indexterm>AES
key</indexterm><indexterm>AES key<indexterm>translation</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>High-performance secure DES keys</dt>
<dd>This is bit X'0295', and is set ON by default. <p>This ACP enables translating DES keys for use
with the CPACF. Without this bit set ON, the call to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> to rewrap the key under the CPACF
wrapping key will fail with a return code 8 and reason code 90, which will in turn imply disabling
the use of this function by the host user. This error will not be returned to the user, instead the
operation will be sent to the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"
/>. Because the default value of the bit is ON, it is assumed that the user will know that it is set
OFF on purpose. A return code 8 and reason code 90 will cause no further requests to go to the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> verb that translates keys, in
an effort to preserve normal path performance.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>High-performance secure AES keys</dt>
<dd>This is bit X'0296', and is set ON by default. <p>This ACP enables translating AES keys for use
with the CPACF. Without this bit set ON, the call to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> to rewrap the key under the CPACF
wrapping key will fail with a return code 8 and reason code 90, which will in turn imply disabling
the use of this function by the host user. This error will not be returned to the user, instead the
operation will be sent to the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"
/>. Because the default value of the bit is ON, it is assumed that the user knows that it is set OFF
on purpose. A return code 8 and reason code 90 do not cause further requests to go to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> verb that translates keys, in an
effort to preserve normal path performance.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<!--<dlentry rev="sh20i1"><dt>ECC / Edward secure private keys</dt><dd>There are no specific ACPs that control <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cpacf"/> export. However, only ECC/Edwards private key tokens that have been tagged as <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cpacf"/> export enabled (keyword <parmname>XPRTCPAC</parmname>) at key creation are exportable as protected keys.</dd></dlentry>-->
</dl>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003534?>
