<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="ptrerequired" rev="sh15">
<title>Required commands</title> <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptre"/>
</searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptre"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptre"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptre"/>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptre"/> verb requires the
<cmdname>Encrypted PIN Translate Enhanced</cmdname> command (offset X'02D5') to be enabled in the
active role. This ACP is ON by default. The following additional commands must be enabled depending
on the capabilities that are requested:</p>
  <table><desc>
    <p outputclass="summary">The table lists the required command for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptre"/> verb </p>
    </desc>    
    <tgroup cols="5">
      <colspec colname="col1" colwidth="20*"/>
      <colspec colname="col2" colwidth="25*"/>
      <colspec colname="col3" colwidth="25*"/>
      <colspec colname="col4" colwidth="15*"/>
      <colspec colname="col5" colwidth="50*"/>
     <thead>
      <row>
        <entry>Rule-array keyword</entry>
        <entry>Input profile format control keyword</entry>
        <entry>Output profile format control keyword Explanation</entry>
        <entry>Offset</entry>
        <entry>Command</entry>
      </row>
     </thead>      
          <tbody>
            <row>
              <entry><cmdname>REFORMAT</cmdname></entry>
              <entry>NONE</entry>
              <entry>NONE</entry>
              <entry>X'00B7'</entry>
              <entry><cmdname rev="shr2">Encrypted PIN Translate - Reformat</cmdname>
</entry>
            </row>
            <row>
            <entry rev="shd3">One or more of the following: <cmdname>IN-DUKPT</cmdname>, 
<cmdname>OUTDUKPT</cmdname>, <cmdname>DUKPT-OP</cmdname>,
<cmdname>DUKPT-IP</cmdname>, or <cmdname>DUKPT-BH</cmdname>
</entry>
              <entry></entry>
              <entry></entry>
              <entry>X'001E'</entry>
              <entry><cmdname rev="shr2">Reencipher CKDS</cmdname></entry>
            </row>
          </tbody>
        </tgroup>
      </table>
      <p>An enhanced PIN security mode is available for extracting PINs from an <tm trademark="IBM"
tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624 encrypted PIN-block and formatting an encrypted PIN block into 3621 or
3624 format using the PADDIGIT PIN-extraction method. This mode limits checking of the PIN to
decimal digits, and a minimum PIN length of 4 is enforced. No other PIN-block consistency checking
occurs. To activate this mode, enable the <cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname> command (offset
X'0313') in the active role.</p>
      <p>The verb returns an error indicating that the PAD digit is not valid if all of these
        conditions are met:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>The <cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname> command is enabled in the active role.</li>
        <li>The output PIN profile specifies 3624 as the PIN-block format.</li>
        <li>The output PIN profile specifies a decimal digit (0 - 9) as the PAD digit.</li>
      </ol>
<p>Three additional commands should be considered (offsets X'0350', X'0351', X'0352', and X'032F'). If
        enabled, these three commands affect how PIN processing by this and other verbs is performed:</p>
      <ol>
        <li>Enable the <cmdname rev="shr2">ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</cmdname>
command (offset X'0350') in the active role to apply additional restrictions to PIN processing as follows:<ul>
<li>Do not translate or reformat a non-ISO PIN block into an ISO PIN block. Specifically, do not
allow an IBM 3624 PIN-block format in the <parmname>output_PIN_profile</parmname> variable when the
PIN-block format in the <parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname> variable is not 3624.</li>
<li>Constrain use of ISO-2 PIN blocks to offline PIN verification and PIN change operations in
integrated circuit card environments only. Specifically, do not allow ISO-2 input or output PIN
blocks.</li>
<li>Do not translate or reformat a PIN-block format that includes a PAN into a PIN-block format that
does not include a PAN. Specifically, do not allow an ISO-1 PIN-block format in the
<parmname>output_PIN_profile</parmname> variable when the PIN-block format in the
<parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname> variable is ISO-0 or ISO-3.</li>
</ul></li>
        <li>Enable the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Allow modification of PAN</cmdname> command (offset
X'0351') in the active role to override the restriction to not allow a change of PAN data. This
override is applicable only when either the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block
restrictions</cmdname> command (offset X'0350') or the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Allow only ANSI PIN
blocks</cmdname> command (offset X'0352') or both are enabled in the active role. This override
supports environments that issue account number changes. Offset X'0351' has no effect if neither
offset X'0350' nor offset X'0352' is enabled in the active role. This rule does not apply for PTRE.
Also, PAN changes are not allowed.</li>
        <li>Enable the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Allow only ANSI PIN blocks</cmdname> command (offset
X'0352') in the active role to apply a more restrictive variation of the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN -
Enforce PIN block restrictions</cmdname> command (offset X'0350'). In addition to the previously
described restrictions of offset X'0350', this command also restricts the
<parmname>input_PIN_profile</parmname> and the <parmname>output_PIN_profile</parmname> parameters to
contain only ISO-0, ISO-1, and ISO-3 PIN block formats. Specifically, the IBM 3624 PIN-block format
is not allowed with this command. The command at offset X'0352' overrides the one at offset
X'0350'.</li>
      <li rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow PIN block format ISO-1</cmdname> (offset X'032F')access control is
enabled in the domain role, the PIN block format in the <i>input_PIN_profile</i> and
<i>output_PIN_profile</i> parameters is not allowed to be ISO-1.
</li>
      </ol>
<p rev="sh20i1">In releases before Release 5.4 and Release 6.2, triple-length TDES keys are not
supported, thus limiting an outbound TDES key to double length. Beginning with Release 5.4 and
Release 6.2, triple-length TDES keys are supported, and an outbound TDES key can be double-length or
triple-length. This makes it possible for data that is encrypted using a triple-length key to be
translated to data encrypted using a weaker double-length key. Such a translation reduces the
security of the data and causes a security exposure, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> normally restricts such a translation from
occurring. To override this restriction, the <cmdname>Translate from DES Key to Weaker DES
Key</cmdname> command (offset X'01C3') must be enabled in the active role.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>
