<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_x98_enf">
<title>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block
restrictions</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>When the ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions access
control point is enabled, restrictions are enforced.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords><!--Insert <indexterm> tags here--></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The following restrictions are enforced: </p>
<ul>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verbs will not accept <tm
trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624 PIN format in the output profile parameter when the input
profile parameter is not <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> 3624.</li>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> verb will not accept
ISO-0 or ISO-3 formats in the input PIN profile unless ISO-0 or ISO-3 is in the output PIN
profile.</li>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verbs will not accept ISO-1 or ISO-2
formats in the output profile parameter when the input profile parameter contains ISO-0, ISO-3, or
VISA4.</li>
<li>When the input profile parameter for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verbs contains either ISO-0 or ISO-3
formats, the PAN within the decrypted PIN block will be extracted. This PAN must be the same as the
PAN that was supplied as the input PAN parameter, and this PAN must be the same as the PAN supplied
as the output PAN parameter.</li>
<li>The input PAN and output PAN parameters for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verbs must be equivalent.</li>
<li>When the rule array for the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"
/> verb contains VISA-PVV, the input PIN profile must contain ISO-0 or ISO-3 formats.</li>
</ul>
</conbody></concept>