<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_wemcvsc">
<title>Working with Europay-Mastercard-Visa Smart cards</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Working with Europay-Mastercard-Visa Smart cards</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Working with Europay-Mastercard-Visa
Smart cards</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>There are several verbs you can use in secure communications with
Europay-Mastercard-Visa (EMV) smart cards. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords><!--Insert <indexterm> tags here--></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The processing capabilities are consistent with the specifications
provided in these documents:
<ul>
<li><cite>EMV 2000 Integrated
Circuit Card Specification for Payment Systems Version 4.0 (EMV4.0)
Book 2</cite></li>
<li><cite>Design Visa Integrated
Circuit Card Specification Manual</cite></li>
<li><cite>Integrated Circuit Card
Specification (VIS) 1.4.0 Corrections</cite></li>
</ul></p>
<p>EMV smart cards include the following processing capabilities:
<ul>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg"/> verb with rule-array options <synph><kwd>TDES-XOR</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>TDESEMV2</kwd></synph>,
and <synph><kwd>TDESEMV4</kwd></synph> enables you to derive a key used to cipher and
authenticate messages, and more particularly message parts, for exchange
with an EMV smart card. You use the derived key with verbs such as: <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/>, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/>, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn"/>, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/>, <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsky"/>,
and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/>. These message parts can be combined with message parts
created using the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsky"/> and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verbs.</li>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsky"/> verb enables secure incorporation of a key into
a message part (generally the value portion of a TLV component of
a secure message for a card). Similarly, the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verb enables
secure incorporation of a PIN block into a message part.</li>
<li><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"/> verb enables encryption of a new PIN to send to a new
EMV card, or to update the PIN value on an initialized EMV card. This
verb generates both the required session key (from the master encryption
key) and the required authentication code (from the master authentication
key).</li>
<li>The <synph><kwd>ZERO-PAD</kwd></synph> option of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpke"/> enables validation
of a digital signature created according to ISO 9796-2 standard by
encrypting information that you format, including a hash value of
the message to be validated. You compare the resulting enciphered
data to the digital signature accompanying the message to be validated.</li>
<li>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn"/> and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> verbs post-pad a <ph>X'80'</ph>...<ph>X'00'</ph> string
to a message as required for authenticating messages exchanged with
EMV smart cards.</li>
</ul></p>
</conbody></concept>