<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_mvr">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/>)</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>When the receiver gets a message, an application program calls
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> verb. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Message Authentication Code (MAC)<indexterm>verifying</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/>)<indexterm>methods</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This <ph>verb</ph> verifies a 4-byte, 6-byte, or 8-byte Message
Authentication Code (MAC) for an application-supplied text string.
This <ph>verb</ph> verifies a MAC by generating another MAC and comparing
it with the MAC received with the message. This process takes place
entirely within the secure module on the coprocessor. If the two codes
are the same, the message sent was the same one received. A return
code indicates whether the MACs are the same. The generated MAC never
appears in storage and is not revealed outside the cryptographic feature.</p></section>
<section><p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"/> <ph>verb</ph> can use any of the following methods
to generate the MAC for authentication:
<ul>
<li>The ANSI X9.9-1 single key algorithm, a single-length MAC verification
or MAC generation key (or a data-encrypting key), and the message
text.</li>
<li>The ANSI X9.19 optional double key algorithm, a double-length <ph>MAC
verification or</ph> MAC generation key and the message text.</li>
<li>Using the Europay, MasterCard and Visa (EMV) padding rules.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>The method used to verify the MAC should correspond with the method used to generate the MAC.</p>
<note rev="sh18i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>