<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="Ctrcsfb4-gen215_parameters" xml:lang="en-us" rev="hw20i1">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameter definitions for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"
/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>input_token_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>input_token parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_kdh_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_kdh parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_krd_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>cred_krd parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>random_number_token_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>random_number_token parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_token_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>output_token parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>reserved_data_length parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>reserved_data parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>,
<synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>, and
<synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"
/>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt> rule_array_count </pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The number of keywords you supplied in the <i>rule_array</i> parameter. The value must be 1
- 2.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Character</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> contains keywords that provide control information to
the callable service. The keywords must be 8 bytes of contiguous storage with the keyword
left-justified in its 8-byte location and padded on the right with blanks. <table frame="all"
pgwide="0" id="table_mbh_qkm_dlb"><title>Keywords for TR-34 Bind-Complete</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for TR-34 Bind-Complete. This table contains two columns: Keyword
and Meaning, and it contains rows for Requested action (one, required) and Public Key Infrastructure
Usage (one, optional).</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="128*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="268*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry align="left" valign="bottom">Keyword</entry>
<entry align="left" valign="bottom">Meaning</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Requested action (one,
required).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>BINDKRDC</entry>
<entry>TR34 BIND CTKRD creation service. Creates the KRD credential token
that is needed by the KDH to take the next step in the TR-34 BIND action.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>BINDRV</entry>
<entry>TR34 BIND CTKDH RECEIVE service. Receives and processes the token
sent by the KDH to the KRD to accomplish the BIND action in the TR-34 protocol. This binds the KRD
to the KDH for a later key distribution action.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>UNBINDRV</entry>
<entry>TR34 UNBIND UBTKDH RECEIVE service. Receives and processes the
token sent by the KDH to the KRD to accomplish the UNBIND action in the TR-34 protocol. This frees
the KRD from the currently bound KDH and causes the KRD to remove all keys received while bound to
this KDH.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>REBINDRV</entry>
<entry>TR34 REBIND RBTKDH RECEIVE service. Receives and processes the
token sent by the KDH to the KRD to accomplish the REBIND action in the TR-34 protocol. This frees
the KRD from the current binding key of the KDH and binds the KRD to a new binding key from the KDH.
This also causes the KRD to remove all keys received while bound to the KDH under the prior binding
key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col2" namest="col1"><b><i>Public Key Infrastructure Usage
(one, optional).</i></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-CHK</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is
to be validated against the trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This requires that the CA
credentials have been installed using the Trusted Key Entry (TKE) workstation. This is required for
compliance-tagged key token export with TR-34 services.<p>This is the default.</p><p>Cannot be combined
with BINDKRDC. There are no other-party credentials to evaluate.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>PKI-NONE</entry>
<entry>Specifies that the X.509 certificate for the other party (KRD) is
not to be validated against the trust chain of the PKI hosted in the adapter. This is suitable if
the certificate has been validated using host-based PKI services.<p>Cannot be combined with
BINDKRDC. There are no other-party credentials to evaluate.</p></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table></p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>input_token</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.
When the requested action keyword is BINDKRDC, the value must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>input_token</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The DER encoded TR-34 token object. The requested action keyword defines the object.<p>When
the <i>input_token_length</i> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p><p>The requested action keyword
determines the input token:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>BINDRV</dt>
<dd>The BIND token received from the KDH (CTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UNBINDRV</dt>
<dd>The UNBIND token received from the KDH (UBTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>REBINDRV</dt>
<dd>The REBIND token received from the KDH (RBTKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_kdh</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes. When
the requested action keyword is BINDKRDC or BINDRV, the value must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_kdh</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KDH for the requested service. The
certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<p>When the <i>cred_kdh_length</i> is zero, this parameter
is ignored.</p><note>This service is acting as the KDH so the <i>cred_kdh</i> is not expected to
validate against the internal PKI of the adapter. Use the PKI-NONE keyword to override this
validation.</note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_krd_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>cred_krd</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes. When
the requested action keyword is BINDRV, the value must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>cred_krd</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The X.509 certificate that is the credential of the KRD for the requested service (the
CredKRD). The certificate may be in DER or PEM format.<p>When the <i>cred_krd_length</i> is zero,
this parameter is ignored. </p><note>This service is acting as the KDH so the <i>cred_krd</i> is
normally expected to validate against the internal PKI of the adapter. Use the PKI-NONE keyword to
override this validation,</note></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>random_number_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>random_number_token</i> parameter. The maximum length is 200 bytes.
When the requested action keyword is BINDKRDC or BINDRV, the value must be zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>random_number_token</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The DER encoded random number token RTKRD that was sent to the KDH. The
<i>random_number_token</i> is used by the KRD to validate the random number sent by the KDH in the
<i>input_token</i> parameter. <p> When the <i>random_number_token_length</i> is zero, this parameter
is ignored.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_token_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the <i>output_token</i> parameter in bytes. The maximum length is 3500 bytes.
On input, the value is the size of the buffer to receive the <i>output_token</i>. On output, the
value is the actual size of the data returned in the <i>output_token</i> parameter. <p>When the
requested action keyword is UNBINDRV, the value must be zero.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>output_token</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The generated DER encoded TR-34 token.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>BINDKRDC</dt>
<dd>The TR-34 credential token for the KRD (CTKRD).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>BINDRV and REBINDRV</dt>
<dd>The TR-34 credential X.509 certificate for the KDH (CredKDH).</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>When the <i>output_token_length</i> is zero, this parameter is ignored.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is reserved. The value must be zero.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row valign="bottom">
<entry colname="col1">Direction</entry>
<entry colname="col2">Type</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1">Input/Output</entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000037185?>
