<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_tbs12">
<title>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph></title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Trusted block section <ph><ph>X'12'</ph></ph></navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Trusted block section
<ph>X'12'</ph></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Trusted block section <ph>X'12'</ph> contains information that defines
a rule. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>
<indexterm>trusted block section X'12'</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>TA trusted block can have zero or more rule sections. </p>
<ol>
<li>A trusted block with no rule sections can be used by the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptc"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpki"/> verbs. A trusted block with no rule
sections can be used by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdsv"/>
verb, provided there is an RSA public key section that has its key-usage flag set to allow digital
signature operations.</li>
<li>At least one rule section is required when the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkx"/> verb is used to: <ul>
<li>Generate an RKX key-token </li>
<li>Export an RKX key-token </li>
<li>Export a CCA DES key-token</li>
<li>Generate or export a key encrypted by a public key. The public key is contained in a vendor
certificate and is the root certification key for the ATM vendor. It is used to verify the digital
signature on public-key certificates for specific individual ATMs.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>If a trusted block has multiple rule sections, each rule section must have a unique 8-character
Rule ID.</li>
</ol>
<p>Section <ph>X'12'</ph> is the only section that can have multiple sections. Section
<ph>X'12'</ph> is optional. <note>The overall length of the trusted block cannot exceed its maximum
size of 3500 bytes. </note></p>
<p>Five subsections (TLV objects) are defined.</p>
<table id="l0wskc02_srsas06" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Trusted block rule section <ph>(<ph>X'12'</ph>)</ph></title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Trusted block rule section </p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="30*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="220*"/>
<thead>
<row rowsep="1">
<entry valign="top">Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry valign="top">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry valign="top">000</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Section identifier: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'12'</ph></dt>
<dd>Trusted block rule</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Section version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">002</entry>
<entry valign="top">Section length in bytes (20 + <i>yyy</i>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">008</entry>
<entry valign="top">Rule ID (in ASCII). <p>An 8-byte character string that uniquely identifies the
rule within the trusted block. </p>
<p>Valid ASCII characters are: A - Z, a - z, 0 - 9, - (hyphen), and _ (underscore), left-aligned and
padded on the right with space characters.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">012</entry>
<entry valign="top">004</entry>
<entry valign="top">Flags (undefined flag bits are reserved and must be zero). <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00000000'</ph></dt>
<dd>Generate new key</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00000001'</ph></dt>
<dd>Export existing key</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">016</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Generated key length. <p>Length in bytes of key to be generated when flags value
(offset 012) is set to generate a new key; otherwise ignore this value. Valid values are 8, 16, or
24; return an error if not valid.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">017</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Key-check algorithm identifier (all others are reserved and must not be used):
<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00'</ph></dt>
<dd>Do not compute key-check value. Set the key_check_value_length variable to zero. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'01'</ph></dt>
<dd>Encrypt an 8-byte block of binary zeros with the key. See <xref
href="wskc_c_enzero.dita#l0wskc02_enzero"/>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'02'</ph></dt>
<dd>Compute the MDC-2 hash of the key. See <xref href="wskc_c_algomdc.dita#l0wskc02_algomdc"/>.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">018</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Symmetric encrypted output key format flag (all other values are reserved and
must not be used). <p>Return the indicated symmetric key-token using the
<i>sym_encrypted_key_identifier</i> parameter.</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00'</ph></dt>
<dd>Return an RKX key-token encrypted under a variant of the MAC key. <note>This key format is
permitted when the flags value (offset 012) is set to either: <ol>
<li>Generate a new key</li>
<li>Export an existing key</li>
</ol>
</note></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'01'</ph></dt>
<dd>Return a CCA DES key-token encrypted under a transport key. <note>This key format is not
permitted if the flags value (offset 012) is set to generate a new key; it is only permitted when
exporting an existing key.</note></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">019</entry>
<entry valign="top">001</entry>
<entry valign="top">Asymmetric encrypted output key format flag (all other values are reserved and
must not be used). <p>Return the indicated asymmetric key-token in the
<synph><var>asym_encrypted_key</var></synph> variable.</p>
<dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Description</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'00'</ph></dt>
<dd>Do not return an asymmetric key. Set the <synph><var>asym_encrypted_key_length</var></synph>
variable to zero.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'01'</ph></dt>
<dd>Output in PKCS-1.2 format.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'02'</ph></dt>
<dd>Output in RSA-OAEP format. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="sh18i1">
<dt><ph>X'04'</ph></dt>
<dd>Output in RSA-OAEP format (RSA PKCS #1 v2.0) using SHA-256.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top">020</entry>
<entry valign="top"><i>yyy</i></entry>
<entry valign="top">Rule section subsections (tag-length-value objects). A series of zero - five
objects in TLV format.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</refbody></reference>
