<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="pkatok_integrity" rev="sh16">
<title>Integrity of PKA private key sections containing an encrypted RSA key</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Integrity of PKA private key sections</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Integrity of PKA private key sections
containing an encrypted RSA key</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc/>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>private key<indexterm>integrity</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA private key<indexterm>integrity</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>With the exception of RSA key tokens containing an AES encrypted OPK (sections X'30' and
X'31'), if an RSA key-token contains information for an encrypted private-key, then the integrity of
the information within the token can be verified by computing and comparing the SHA-1 
message digest values that are found at offsets 4 and 30 within the private-key section.
</p>
<p>The SHA-1 message digest at offset 4 requires access to the
cleartext values of the private-key components. The cryptographic engine verifies this hash quantity
whenever it retrieves the secret key for productive use.</p>
<p>A second SHA-1 message digest, located at offset 30 (excluding
sections X'30' and X'31'), is computed on optional, designated key-token information following the
public-key section. The value of this SHA-1 message digest is included in the
computation of the message digest at offset 4. As with the offset 4 value, the
message digest at offset 30 is validated whenever a private key is recovered
from the token for productive use.</p>
<p>CCA provides PKA private key sections X'30' and X'31'.
These sections can contain an AESKW-wrapped (ANS X9.102) RSA private key (wrapped by the OPK) and an
AES encrypted OPK. When the RSA key with an AES encrypted OPK is wrapped, a message digest is calculated over the associated data section contained in the private-key section. The
calculated message digest becomes part of the payload before it is wrapped.
There is no way for a user to retrieve this value to validate it. The same is true for ECC private
keys, which are AESKW-wrapped.</p>
<p>In addition to the hash checks, various token-format and content checks are performed to validate
the key values.</p>
<p>The optional PKA private-key name section can be used by access-monitor systems to ensure that the application program is entitled to
employ the particular private key.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
