<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csnbdrpgranpin_2" rev="sh20i1">
  <title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/>)</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrg2"/> verb to
generate a random PIN of a selected length and calculate a PIN reference value or word (PRW) as
outlined in the DK specification. Other PIN processes can use the PRW to verify the PIN. In
addition, this verb can optionally return an encrypted PIN block (EPB) together with a verifying PIN
block MAC, and it can optionally return a chip encrypted PIN block (CHIP-EPB).</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrg2"/>)</indexterm>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/>)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrg2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
  <section>
<note/> This verb deprecates the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdrpg"/>(<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldrpg"/>) verb. In addition to providing all
the function of CSNBDRPG, this verb supports the output of a chip-encrypted PIN block. </section>
<section><b>Weak PINs:</b> The random PIN generation process generates a new PIN until the generated
PIN is not found in the weak PIN table. </section>
<section>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/> verb performs the
following tasks: <ul>
<li>Generates a random PIN of the selected length and creates a PIN block in a DK-defined format
that is used to return a PIN print key to be printed on a PIN mailer.</li>
<li>Generates a PRW random number and calculates a PIN reference value. These values are returned
for later use in other PIN processes to verify the PIN.</li>
<li>If the rule array specifies to return an encrypted PIN block (EPB), the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/> verb returns an encrypted PIN block
together with a verifying PIN block MAC using CMAC calculated over the concatenation of the
encrypted PIN block and permanent card data (<parmname>card_p_data)</parmname>. This information can
be stored for later use in personalizing replacement cards.</li>
<li>If the rule array specifies <synph><kwd>CHIP-EPB</kwd></synph>, the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrg2"/> verb returns a chip encrypted PIN
block.</li>
</ul><note rev="sh20i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key
tokens.</note></section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
