<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_sumdea" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Summary of the AES, DES, and HMAC verbs</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>AES, DES, and HMAC verbs summary</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Summary of the AES, DES, and HMAC
verbs</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Hash Message Authentication Code (HMAC) support was added in <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> Release 4.1.0. All of the HMAC verbs and
features listed in this summary require <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 4.1.0 or <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 4.2.0 in order to run.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"
/></indexterm><indexterm>AES</indexterm><indexterm>DES</indexterm><indexterm>HMAC</indexterm><indexterm>hashing</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> verb</indexterm><indexterm>AES verb</indexterm>
<indexterm>DES verb</indexterm><indexterm>HMAC verb</indexterm>
<indexterm>hashing verb</indexterm><indexterm>Interbank PIN</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p><xref href="#l0wskc02_sumdea/l0wskc02_summ"/> lists the AES, DES, and HMAC verbs described in
this document. The table also references the chapter that describes the verb. </p>
<table frame="all" id="l0wskc02_summ" pgwide="1">
<title>Summary of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> AES, DES, and
HMAC verbs</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Summary of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"
/> AES, DES, and HMAC verbs</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="4">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="11*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="22*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="29*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="19*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Entry point</entry>
<entry>Verb name</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
<entry>Topic/Page</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col4" namest="col1">
<b><xref href="wskc_r_apmky.dita#l0wskc02_apmky"/></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcki"
/>
</entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcki"
/></entry>
<entry>Imports an 8-byte clear DATA key, enciphers it under the master
key, and places the result into an internal key token. This verb converts the clear key into
operational form as a DATA key.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cki.dita#l0wskc02_cki"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclckm"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmckm"
/></entry>
<entry>Imports a single-length, double-length, or triple-length clear DATA
key that is used to encipher or decipher data. It accepts a clear key and enciphers the key under
the host master key, returning an encrypted DATA key in operational form in an internal key
token.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ckm.dita#l0wskc02_ckm"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcvg"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcvg"
/></entry>
<entry>Builds a control vector from keywords specified by the
<synph><var>key_type</var></synph> and <synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> parameters.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cvg1.dita#l0wskc02_cvg1"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcvt"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcvt"/></entry>
<entry>Changes the control vector used to encipher an external DES key.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cvxl.dita#l0wskc02_cvxl"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcve"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcve"/></entry>
<entry>Encrypts plaintext using a CVARENC key to produce ciphertext using the Cipher
Block Chaining (CBC) method.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cvenc.dita#l0wskc02_cvenc"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkx"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkx"
/></entry>
<entry>Re-enciphers a DATA key from encryption under the master key to
encryption under an exporter key-encrypting key, making it suitable for export to another
system.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_dkx.dita#l0wskc02_dkx"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkm"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkm"
/></entry>
<entry>Imports an encrypted source DES single-length or double-length DATA
key and creates or updates a target internal key token with the master key enciphered source
key.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_dkm.dita#l0wskc02_dkm"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg"/></entry>
<entry>Generates a key based upon the key-generating key, the processing
method, and the parameter data that is supplied. The control vector of the key-generating key also
determines the type of target key that can be generated.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_dkg.dita#l0wskc02_dkg"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldkg2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdkg2"/></entry>
<entry>Generates an AES key based on a function of a key-generating key, the process rule, and data
that you supply.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_dkg2.dita#l0wskc02_dkg2"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbddk"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbrmbddk"/></entry>
<entry>Selectively generates and derives a pair of associated keys in connection with a
<term>directed key diversification</term> key scheme.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_ddk.dita"/></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclecdh"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmecdh"/>
</entry>
<entry>Creates symmetric key material from a pair of Elliptic Curve Cryptography (ECC) keys using
the Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) protocol.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_vbecdhvb.dita#vbecdhvb"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkex"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkex"
/></entry>
<entry>Re-enciphers a key from encryption under a master key variant to
encryption under the same variant of an exporter key-encrypting key, making it suitable for export
to another system.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kex.dita#l0wskc02_kex"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates a 64-bit, 128-bit, 192-bit, <ph>or 256-bit</ph> odd
parity key, or a pair of keys; and returns them in encrypted forms (operational, exportable, or
importable). <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"/> does not produce
keys in plaintext.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kgn.dita#l0wskc02_kgn"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkgn2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/></entry>
<entry>Generates either one or two HMAC keys. This verb does not produce
keys in clear form and all keys are returned in encrypted form. When two keys are generated, each
key has the same clear value, although this clear value is not exposed outside the secure
cryptographic feature. <p>This verb returns variable-length <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key tokens and uses the AESKW wrapping
method. Operational keys will be encrypted under the AES master key.</p></entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kgn2.dita#l0wskc02_kgn2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkim"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkim"
/></entry>
<entry>Re-enciphers a key from encryption under an importer key-encrypting
key to encryption under the master key. The re-enciphered key is in the operational form.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kim.dita#l0wskc02_kim"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkpi"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkpi"
/></entry>
<entry>Combines the clear key parts of any key type and returns the
combined key value in an internal key token or an update to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key storage file.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kpi.dita#l0wskc02_kpi"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkpi2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkpi2"/></entry>
<entry>Combines the clear key parts of any HMAC key type from an internal variable-length symmetric
key-token, and returns the combined key value in an internal variable-length symmetric key-token or
an update to the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key storage
file.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kpi2.dita#l0wskc02_kpi2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates or verifies (depending on keywords in the
<varname>rule_array</varname>) a secure verification pattern for keys. This verb requires the tested
key to be in the clear or encrypted under the master key. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kyt.dita#l0wskc02_kyt"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkyt2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/></entry>
<entry>Generates or verifies (depending on keywords in the <varname>rule_array</varname>) a secure
cryptographic verification pattern for keys contained in a variable-length symmetric key-token. The
key to test can be in the clear or encrypted under a master key. Requires the tested key to be in
the clear or encrypted under the master key.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kyt2.dita#l0wskc02_kyt2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkye"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkye"/></entry>
<entry>This verb is essentially the same as <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt"/>, except for the following: <ul
compact="yes">
<li>In addition to operating on internal keys and key parts, this verb also operates on external
keys and key parts.</li>
<li>This verb does not operate on clear keys, and does not accept <i>rule_array</i> keywords
CLR-A128, CLR-A192, CLR-A256, KEY-CLR, and KEY-CLRD.</li>
</ul></entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_kyt_ext.dita#l0wskc02_kyt_ext"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktb"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktb"
/></entry>
<entry>Builds an internal or external token from the supplied parameters.
You can use this verb to build <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key
tokens for all key types that <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>
supports. The resulting token can be used as input to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn"/>, and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkpi"/> verbs.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ktb.dita#l0wskc02_ktb"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktb2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktb2"/></entry>
<entry>Builds variable-length internal or external key tokens for all key types that the coprocessor
supports. The key token is built based on parameters that you supply. The resulting token can be
used as input to the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkgn2"/>, and
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkpi2"/> verbs. A clear key token
built by this verb can be used as input to the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkyt2"/> verb. <p>This verb supports internal
HMAC tokens, both as clear key tokens and as skeleton tokens containing no key.</p></entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ktb2.dita#l0wskc02_ktb2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbtc"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmbtc"/></entry>
<entry>Re-enciphers a DES key from encryption under the old master key to encryption
under the current master key, and to update the keys in internal DES key-tokens.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_bktc.dita#l0wskc02_bktc"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbtc2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmbtc2"/></entry>
<entry>Re-enciphers a variable-length HMAC key from encryption under the old master key to
encryption under the current master key. This verb also updates the keys in internal HMAC
key-tokens.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_bktc2.dita#l0wskc02_bktc2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbtp"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmbtp"/></entry>
<entry>Disassembles a key <ph>token</ph> into separate pieces of information. This
verb can disassemble an external key-token or an internal key-token in application storage.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ktp.dita#l0wskc02_ktp"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclbtp2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmbtp2"/></entry>
<entry>Disassembles a variable-length symmetric key-token into separate pieces of information. The
verb can disassemble an external or internal variable-length symmetric key-token in application
storage. The verb returns some of the key-token information in a set of variables identified by
individual parameters, and returns the remaining information as keywords in the rule array.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ktp2.dita#l0wskc02_ktp2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktr"
/></entry>
<entry>Uses one key-encrypting key to decipher an input key and then
enciphers this key using another key-encrypting key within the secure environment.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ktr1.dita#l0wskc02_ktr1"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclktr2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktr2"/></entry>
<entry>Uses one key-encrypting key to decipher an input key and then enciphers this key using
another key-encrypting key within the secure environment. This verb differs from the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktr"/> verb in that <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmktr2"/> can process both fixed-length and
variable-length symmetric key tokens.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ktr2.dita#l0wskc02_ktr2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkd"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpkd"
/></entry>
<entry>Uses an RSA private key to decrypt the RSA-encrypted key value and
return the clear key value to the application.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_spkd.dita#l0wskc02_spkd"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpke"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpke"
/></entry>
<entry>Encrypts a supplied clear key value under an RSA public key. The
supplied key can be formatted using the PKCS 1.2 or ZERO-PAD methods prior to encryption.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_spke.dita#l0wskc02_spke"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpex"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpex"
/></entry>
<entry>Modifies the control vector of a <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key token so that the key cannot be
exported. This verb operates only on internal key tokens.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_pee.dita#l0wskc02_pee"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpee"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpee"
/></entry>
<entry>Modifies an external DES key-token so that the key can no longer be
exported after it has been imported. This verb operates only on internal key tokens.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_peex.dita#l0wskc02_peex"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrkatr"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrkatr"/></entry>
<entry>Modifies an operational variable-length key so that it cannot be exported.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_rkat.dita#l0wskc02_rkat"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclrng"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrng"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates an 8-byte cryptographic-quality random number suitable
for use as an encryption key or for other purposes. The output can be specified in three forms of
parity: RANDOM, ODD, and EVEN.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_rng.dita#l0wskc02_rng"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbsprngl"/></entry>
<entry><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmrng2"/></entry>
<entry>Generates a cryptographic-quality random number suitable for use as
an encryption key or for other purposes, ranging from 1 - 8192 bytes in length. The output can be
specified in three forms of parity: RANDOM, ODD, and EVEN.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_rngl.dita#l0wskc02_rngl"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyx"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/></entry>
<entry>Transfer an application-supplied symmetric key (a DATA key) from encryption under the AES,
DES or HMAC master key to encryption under an application-supplied RSA public key. The
application-supplied DATA key must be an AES, DES or HMAC internal key token, or the label of an AES
or DES key token in the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> key
storage file. The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/> and <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi2"/> verb can import the PKA-encrypted key
form at the receiving node. Support for HMAC key was added beginning with <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 4.1.0.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_syx.dita#l0wskc02_syx"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsxd"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpka"/></entry>
<entry>Export a symmetric key, along with some application supplied data, encrypted using an RSA
key. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_pka.dita#wskc_pka"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyg"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyg"/></entry>
<entry>Generate a symmetric key (a DATA key) and return the key in two forms: DES-encrypted and
encrypted under an RSA public key. The DES-encrypted key can be an internal token encrypted under a
host DES master key, or an external form encrypted under a KEK. (You can use the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/> verb to import the PKA-encrypted
form.)</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_syg.dita#l0wskc02_syg"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyi"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/></entry>
<entry>Import a symmetric AES or DES DATA key enciphered under an RSA public key into operational
form enciphered under a DES master key. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_syi.dita#l0wskc02_syi"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsyi2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi2"/></entry>
<entry>Use this verb to import an HMAC key that has been previously formatted and enciphered under
an RSA public key by the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyx"/> verb.
The formatted and RSA-enciphered key is contained in an external variable-length symmetric
key-token. The key is deciphered using the associated RSA private-key. The recovered HMAC key is
re-enciphered under the AES master-key. The re-enciphered key is then returned in an internal
variable-length symmetric key-token. The key algorithm for this verb is HMAC.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_syi2.dita#l0wskc02_syi2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclukd"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmukd"/></entry>
<entry>Performs the key derivation process as defined in ANSI X9.24 Part 1. The process derives keys
from two values: the base derivation key (BDK) and the derivation data. Rule array keywords
determine the types and number of keys derived on a particular call.</entry>
<entry/>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col4" namest="col1"><b><xref
href="wskc_c_apenc.dita#l0wskc02_apenc"/></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"
/></entry>
<entry>Deciphers data using cipher block chaining mode of DES. The result
is called plaintext. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_dec.dita#l0wskc02_dec"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclenc"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"
/></entry>
<entry>Enciphers data using the cipher block chaining mode of DES. The
result is called ciphertext. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_enc.dita#l0wskc02_enc"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbsad1"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsad1"/></entry>
<entry>Deciphers data using the AES cipher block chaining mode.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_syma_dec.dita#l0wskc02_syma_dec"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbsad2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsad2"/></entry>
<entry>Enciphers data using the AES cipher block chaining mode</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_syma_enc.dita#l0wskc02_syma_enc"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclctt2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmctt2"/></entry>
<entry>Deciphers encrypted data (ciphertext) under one ciphertext translation key and re-enciphers
it under another ciphertext translation key without having the data appear in the clear outside the
cryptographic coprocessor.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_protdata_ciphertt2.dita#wskc_ctt2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col4" namest="col1"><b><xref
href="wskc_c_apmac.dita#l0wskc02_apmac"/></b></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbhmacg"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnhmacg"/></entry>
<entry>Generates a keyed hash message authentication code (HMAC) for the text string
provided as input. See <xref href="wskc_c_apmac.dita#l0wskc02_apmac"/>.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_zapghmacg.dita#l0wskc02_zapghmacg"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbhmacv"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnhmacv"/></entry>
<entry>Verifies a keyed hash message authentication code (HMAC) for the text string
provided as input. See <xref href="wskc_c_apmac.dita#l0wskc02_apmac"/>.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_zapghmacv.dita#l0wskc02_zapghmacv"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmgn"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates a 4, 6, or 8-byte Message Authentication Code (MAC) for a
text string that the application program supplies. The MAC is computed using either the ANSI X9.9-1
algorithm or the ANSI X9.19 optional double key algorithm <ph>and padding could be applied according
to the EMV specification.</ph></entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_mgn.dita#l0wskc02_mgn"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmgn2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmgn2"/></entry>
<entry>Generates a keyed hash message authentication code (HMAC) or a ciphered message
authentication code (CMAC) for the message string provided as input. A MAC key with key usage that
can be used for generate is required to calculate the MAC.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_mgn2.dita#wskc_mgn2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr"
/></entry>
<entry>Verifies a 4, 6, or 8-byte Message Authentication Code (MAC) for a
text string that the application program supplies. The MAC is computed using either the ANSI X9.9-1
algorithm or the ANSI X9.19 optional double key algorithm <ph>and padding could be applied according
to the EMV specification.</ph> The computed MAC is compared with a user-supplied MAC. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_mvr.dita#l0wskc02_mvr"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmvr2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmvr2"/>
</entry>
<entry>Verifies a keyed hash message authentication code (HMAC) or a ciphered message authentication
code (CMAC) for the message text provided as input. A MAC key with key usage that can be used for
verify is required to verify the MAC. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_mvr2.dita#wskc_mvr2"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmdg"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmdg"/></entry>
<entry>Creates a 128-bit hash value (Modification Detection Code) on a data string
whose integrity you intend to confirm.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_mdc_generate.dita#l0wskc02_mdc_generate"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclowh"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmowh"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates a one-way hash on specified text.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_owh.dita#l0wskc02_owh"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col4" namest="col1"><b><xref
href="wskc_c_appin.dita#l0wskc02_appin"/></b></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclapg"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmapg"/></entry>
<entry>Generates an authentication parameter (AP) and returns it encrypted using the key supplied in
an input parameter.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_apg.dita#csnbapg"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpe"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpe"
/></entry>
<entry>Formats a PIN into a PIN block format and encrypts the results. You
can also use this <ph>verb</ph> to create an encrypted PIN block for transmission. With the RANDOM
keyword, you can have the <ph>verb</ph> generate random PIN numbers.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cpe.dita#l0wskc02_cpe"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpgn"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpgn"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates a clear personal identification number (PIN), a PIN
verification value (PVV), or an offset using one of the following algorithms: <ul compact="yes">
<li><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> 3624 (IBM-PIN or IBM-PINO)</li>
<li><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> German Bank Pool (GBP-PIN or GBP-PINO)</li>
<li>VISA PIN validation value (VISA-PVV)</li>
<li>Interbank PIN (INBK-PIN) </li>
</ul></entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_pgn.dita#l0wskc02_pgn"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates a clear VISA PIN validation value (PVV) from an input
encrypted PIN block. The PIN block might have been encrypted under either an input or output PIN
encrypting key. The IBM-PINO algorithm is supported to produce a 3624 offset from a customer
selected encrypted PIN. The PIN block must be encrypted under either an input PIN-encrypting key
(IPINENC) or output PIN-encrypting key (OPINENC).</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_cpa.dita#l0wskc02_cpa"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcsg"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcsg"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates a VISA Card Verification Value (CVV) or a MasterCard Card
Verification Code (CVC) as defined for track 2.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_csg.dita#l0wskc02_csg"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclckc"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmckc"/></entry>
<entry>Combine two single-length operational DES keys that are suitable for use with the CVV
(card-verification value) algorithm into one operational TDES key.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_vbspckcombine.dita#vbspckcombine"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcsv"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcsv"/></entry>
<entry>Verifies a VISA Card Verification Value (CVV) or a MasterCard Card
Verification Code (CVC) as defined for track 2. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_csv.dita#l0wskc02_csv"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclepg"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmepg"
/></entry>
<entry>Generates and formats a PIN and encrypts the PIN block. </entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_epg1.dita#l0wskc02_epg1"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/>
</entry>
<entry>Re-enciphers a PIN block from one PIN-encrypting key to another
and, optionally, changes the PIN block format. UKPT keywords are supported. You must identify the
input PIN-encrypting key that originally enciphers the PIN. You also need to specify the output
PIN-encrypting key that you want the <ph>verb</ph> to use to encipher the PIN. If you want to change
the PIN block format, specify a different output PIN block format from the input PIN block
format.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_ptr.dita#l0wskc02_ptr"/></entry>
</row>

<row rev="sh20i1">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr2"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr2"/>
</entry>
<entry>This verb is a superset of the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/>) verb. It provides all the functions of
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptr"/> and, in addition, supports the
AES encrypted ISO-4 PIN-block (as defined in ISO 9564-1) and authenticated PAN change support (which
only applies to ISO-4 to ISO-4 PIN-block format translations).</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_ptr2.dita"/></entry>
</row>

<row>
<entry>
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclptre"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptre"/></entry>
<entry>Reformats a PIN into a different PIN-block format using an enciphered PAN field. You can use
this verb in an interchange-network application, or to change the PIN block to conform to the format
and encryption key used in a PIN-verification database.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_ptre.dita#ptre"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpvr"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpvr"/></entry>
<entry>Verifies a supplied PIN using one of the following algorithms: <ul
compact="yes">
<li><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> 3624 (IBM-PIN or IBM-PINO)</li>
<li><tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> German Bank Pool (GBP-PIN or GBP-PINO)</li>
<li>VISA PIN validation value (VISA-PVV)</li>
<li>Interbank PIN (INBK-PIN)</li>
</ul>
<p>UKPT keywords are supported.</p></entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_pvr.dita#l0wskc02_pvr"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfped"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfped"/></entry>
<entry> Decrypts payment card data for the Visa Data Secure Platform (VDSP) processing.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_fped.dita#csnbfped"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpee"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfpee"/>
</entry>
<entry>Encrypts payment card data for the Visa Data Secure Platform (VDSP) processing.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_fpee.dita#csnbfpee"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpet"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfpet"/>
</entry>
<entry>Translates payment data from encryption under one key to encryption under another key with a
possibly different format.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_fpet.dita#csnbfpet"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpcu"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpcu"
/></entry>
<entry>Supports the PIN change algorithms specified in the VISA Integrated
Circuit Card Specification; available only on an <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> z890 or
<tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> z990 with May 2004 or later version of Licensed Internal
Code (LIC).</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_pcu.dita#l0wskc02_pcu"/></entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpfo"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpfo"/>
</entry>
<entry>Calculates the encrypted customer-entered PIN from a PIN generating key, account information,
and an IBM-PINO Offset.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_bpfo.dita#csnbpfo"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclsky"/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsky"
/></entry>
<entry>Encrypts a text block, including a clear key value decrypted from
an internal or external DES token.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_sky.dita#l0wskc02_sky"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclspn"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"
/></entry>
<entry>Encrypts a text block, including a clear PIN block recovered from
an encrypted PIN block.</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_spn.dita#l0wskc02_spn"/></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcltrv"
/></entry>
<entry><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmtrv"
/></entry>
<entry>Supports the generation and validation of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/amex"/> card security codes; available only on an
<tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> z890 or <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> z990
with May 2004 or later version of Licensed Internal Code (LIC).</entry>
<entry><xref href="wskc_r_trv.dita#l0wskc02_trv"/></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</conbody>
</concept><?Pub Caret -3?>
<?Pub *0000037543?>
