<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<!--HW: Acrolinx run on May 13, 2015-->
<concept id="oc_ccatok_recognize" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>How to recognize the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"></keyword></title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Recognize the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"
/></navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): How to recognize the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/> of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"/> on <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/linuxonz"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command to display a list of all
available tokens. You can check the slot and token information, and the PIN status at any
time.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>status information</indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ocrypto"></keyword><indexterm>status
information</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>pkcsconf -t</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"></keyword><indexterm>status
information</indexterm></indexterm></keywords><?Pub Caret 30?>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<section>    <p>The following example shows information about the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/> in the <codeph>Token #2 Info</codeph> section.
This section provides information about the token that is plugged into slot number
2.<screen scale="80">
$ pkcsconf -t
...
Token #2 Info:
        Label: CCA Token
        Manufacturer: IBM Corp.
        Model: IBM CCA Token
        Serial Number: 123
        Flags: 0x44D (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|USER_PIN_INITIALIZED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|TOKEN_INITIALIZED)
        Sessions: 0/-2
        R/W Sessions: -1/-2
        PIN Length: 4-8
        Public Memory: 0xFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFF
        Private Memory: 0xFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFF
        Hardware Version: 1.0
        Firmware Version: 1.0
        Time: 16:10:40
...
</screen></p>    <p>The output includes the following information:<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>Label</dt>
<dd>The token label that was assigned when the token was initialized.
You can change token labels with the <cmdname>pkcsconf -I</cmdname> command.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Model</dt>
<dd>A unique designation for the token, <q>IBM CCA Token</q> for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/ccatoken"/>.</dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>Flags</dt>
<dd>A mask with information about the token initialization status, the PIN status, and features such
as random number generator (RNG). For example, the mask for TOKEN_INITIALIZED is 0x00000400 and it
is true if the token was initialized. <q>Login required</q> means that there is at least one
mechanism that requires a session login to use that cryptographic function. <p>For more information
about the flags, see the description of the TOKEN_INFO structure and the token information flags in
the <xref conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#links/pkcs11_standard_url"/>.</p></dd>
</dlentry><dlentry>
<dt>PIN length</dt>
<dd>The PIN length range that was specified for the token.</dd>
</dlentry></dl></p>   </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003374?>
