<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="dpnuparameters" rev="sh20i1">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcu2"
/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ENCRYPT</indexterm>
<indexterm>BCD</indexterm>
<indexterm>CLEAR</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>,
<synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>, and
<synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"
/>.</p>
</section>
<section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. This value must be 0 or 1.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Keywords that provide control information to the verb. The keywords are left-aligned in an
8-byte field and padded on the right with blanks. The keywords must be in contiguous storage. The
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> keywords are described in <xref href="#dpnuparameters/dpnu2_table"
format="dita"/>. <table id="dpnu2_table" pgwide="1" frame="all"><title>Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> control information</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcu2"/> control information</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="14*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PIN Block output selection keyword</i></b> (One or two,
optional) </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>CHIP-EPB</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies to return a chip-encrypted PIN block in PBF-1 format in the
<parmname>new_chip_encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> variable. It is encrypted using the key identified
by the <parmname>OPIN_chip_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. Cannot be combined with
<synph><kwd>NOEPB</kwd></synph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>EPB</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies to return an encrypted PIN (EPB) block together with a PIN block MAC: <ul>
<li>The PIN block is returned in PBF-1 format in the <parmname>new_encrypted_PIN_block</parmname>
variable, encrypted using the key identified by the
<parmname>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> parameter.</li>
<li>The MAC is returned in the <parmname>new_PIN_block_MAC</parmname> variable, calculated using the
key identified by the <parmname>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> parameter with the CMAC algorithm
(NIST SP 800-38B). The MAC is calculated over the concatenation of the encrypted PIN block and
permanent card data (<parmname>card_p_data</parmname>).</li>
</ul> Cannot be combined with <synph><kwd>NOEPB</kwd></synph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>NOEPB</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies to not return an encrypted PIN block (EPB). This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PAN test selection</i></b> (One, optional)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>NOPANTST</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies to not perform a PAN test. This is the default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>PANTST</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies to perform a PAN test of the equality of the PAN recovered from the
<parmname>encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> variable and the clear PAN provided by the
<parmname>PAN_data</parmname> variable. The result is returned in the
<parmname>return_code</parmname> variable. Return code 4 indicates that the clear PAN values are not
equal, while return code 0 indicates that they are equal (success).</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table></pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>card_p_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>card_p_data</parmname> parameter. The value
must be in the range 2 - 256. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_p_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p>The time-invariant card data (CDp), determined by the card issuer, which is used to differentiate
between multiple cards for one account.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_t_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>card_t_data</parmname> parameter. The value
must be in the range 2 - 256. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>card_t_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The time-sensitive card data, determined by the card issuer, which, together with the
account number and the <parmname>card_p_data</parmname> parameter, specifies an individual card.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>encrypted_PIN_block_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>encrypted_PIN_block</parmname> parameter.
The value must be 32. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The 32-byte input encrypted PIN block in PBF-1 format. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_block_MAC_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PIN_block_MAC</parmname> parameter. The
value must be 8. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_block_MAC</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The 8-byte CMAC of the encrypted PIN block. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_gjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PRW_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If
the <parmname>PRW_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64. Otherwise, the
value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_hjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The identifier of the PRW generating key. The key identifier is an operational token or the
key label of an operational token in key storage. The key algorithm of this key must be AES, the key
type must be PINPRW, the key usage fields must indicate GENONLY, CMAC, and DKPINOP. <p>If the
supplied token was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted under the
current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_ijq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter. If the <parmname>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length
must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IPIN_encryption_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_jjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The identifier of the key that encrypts the input PIN block. The key identifier is an
operational token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. The key algorithm of this
key must be AES, the key type must be PINPROT, and the key usage fields must indicate DECRYPT, CBC,
and DKPINOP. <p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned
encrypted under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_kjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter. If the <parmname>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be
64. Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>IEPB_MAC_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_ljq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The identifier of the key to verify the MAC of the input PIN block. The key identifier is
an operational token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. The key algorithm of
this key must be AES, the key type must be MAC, and the key usage fields must indicate CMAC, VERIFY,
and DKPINOP. <p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned
encrypted under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_mjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter. <p>If the keyword EPB in the rule array is not specified, this value must be 0.</p><p>If
the <parmname>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64.
Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725. </p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_njq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The identifier of the key to wrap the new PIN block. The key identifier is an operational
token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. When the
<parmname>OPIN_encryption_key_identifier_length</parmname> is 0, this value is ignored. The key
algorithm of this key must be AES, the key type must be PINPROT, and the key usage fields must
indicate ENCRYPT, CBC, and DKPINOP. <p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key,
the token is returned encrypted under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_ojq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname>
parameter. When the keyword <synph><kwd>EPB</kwd></synph> in the rule array is not specified, this
value must be 0. <p>If the <parmname>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length
must be 64. Otherwise, the value must be at least the actual token length, up to 725.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_pjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The identifier of the key to generate the MAC of the PIN block.. The key identifier is an
operational token or the key label of an operational token in key storage. If the
<parmname>OEPB_MAC_key_identifier_length</parmname> is 0, this parameter is ignored. The key
algorithm of this key must be AES, the key type must be MAC, and the key usage fields must indicate
GENONLY, CMAC, and DKPINOP. <p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the
token is returned encrypted under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OPIN_chip_encryption_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the
<parmname>OPIN_chip_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> parameter. If the keyword
<synph><kwd>CHIP-EPB</kwd></synph> in the rule array is not specified, this value must be 0. If the
<parmname>OPIN_chip_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> contains a label, the length must be 64.
Otherwise, the value must be between the actual length of the token and 725. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>OPIN_chip_encryption_key_identifier</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The identifier of the key to encrypt the optional PIN block for the personalization unit.
The key identifier is an operational token or the key label of an operational token in key storage.
When the <parmname>OPIN_chip_encryption_key_identifier_length</parmname> is 0, this parameter is
ignored. The key algorithm of this key must be AES, the key type must be PINPROT, and the key usage
fields must indicate ENCRYPT, CBC, and DKPINOP. <p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old
master key, the token is returned encrypted under the current master key.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PAN_data_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PAN_data</parmname> parameter. The value
must be in the range 10 – 19 when the PANTST keyword is specified. Otherwise, the value must be 0.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PAN_data</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The primary account number (PAN) data used to generate PIN. Include the full account
number, including the check digit. When the <parmname>PAN_data_length</parmname> value is 0, this
parameter is ignored. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_reference_value_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PIN_reference_value</parmname> parameter.
This value must be 16. On output, it is set to 16. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PIN_reference_value</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The calculated 16-byte PIN reference value. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_random_number_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>PRW_random_number</parmname> parameter. The
value must be 4. On output, it is set to 4. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>PRW_random_number</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_tjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The 4-byte random number associated with the PIN reference value. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_encrypted_PIN_block_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>new_encrypted_PIN_block</parmname>
parameter. If the keyword EPB is not specified in the rule array, this parameter must be zero.
Otherwise, the parameter should be at least 32. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The new 32-byte encrypted PIN block in PBF-1 format. If the
<parmname>new_encrypted_PIN_block_length</parmname> value is zero, this parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_PIN_block_MAC_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_wjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>new_PIN_block_MAC</parmname> parameter. If
the <synph><kwd>EPB</kwd></synph> keyword is not specified in the rule array, this value must be
zero. Otherwise, it must be at least 8. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_PIN_block_MAC</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0"
id="table_xjq_hnx_jlb">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The new 8-byte CMAC of the new PIN block. If the
<parmname>new_PIN_block_MAC_length</parmname> value is zero, this parameter is ignored. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_chip_encrypted_PIN_block_length</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> Specifies the length in bytes of the <parmname>new_chip_encrypted_PIN_block</parmname>
parameter. If the <synph><kwd>CHIPEPB</kwd></synph> keyword is not specified in the rule array, the
value to 0. Otherwise, on input the value must be at least 32. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>new_chip_encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd>
<table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry>Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry>String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table> The 32-byte chip encrypted PIN block. If the
<parmname>new_chip_encrypted_PIN_block_length</parmname> value is zero, this parameter is ignored.
</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
