<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc_int" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16i1">
<title>RSA private internal key token</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>RSA private internal key token</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private internal key
token</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Read the contained information about the basic structure of  RSA private internal key
tokens.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA private
internal</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>record format<indexterm>RSA private
internal</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>private internal key token<indexterm>RSA</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>internal key token<indexterm>PKA<indexterm>RSA
private</indexterm></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Chinese Remainder Theorem</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>An RSA private internal key token contains the following sections: <ul>
<li>A required PKA token header, starting with the token identifier <ph>X'1F'</ph></li>
<li>Basic record format of an RSA private internal key token. All length fields are in binary. All
binary fields (exponents, lengths, and so on) are stored with the high-order byte first (left,
low-address, big-endian format). All binary fields (exponents, modulus, and so on) in the private
sections of tokens are right-aligned and padded with zeros to the left.</li>
</ul><xref href="#l0wskc_int/l0wskc02_rsapkai" format="dita"/> shows the format. <table frame="all"
id="l0wskc02_rsapkai" pgwide="1">
<title>RSA private internal key token basic record format</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">RSA private internal key token basic record format</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="15*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (decimal)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>Token Header</i></b> (Required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Token identifier. <ph>X'1F'</ph> indicates an internal token. The private key is enciphered
with a PKA master key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Version, <ph>X'00'</ph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the key token structure excluding the internal information section.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Ignored; should be zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>RSA Private Key Section and Secured Subsection</i></b>
(Required) <p>See the following sections:</p><ul>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_rsamee_intext.dita#rsamee_intext"/>.</li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_rsamee_opk.dita#l0wskc02_rsamee_opk"/></li>
<li>
<xref href="wskc_rsamef_intext.dita#rsamef_intext"/>.</li>
<li><xref format="dita" href="wskc_rsopk1_intext.dita" scope="local" type="topic"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_rsapkt_crt_intext.dita#rsapkt_crt_intext"/></li>
<li><xref format="dita" href="wskc_rropk1_intext.dita" scope="local" type="topic"/></li>
<li><xref href="wskc_r_rsame2.dita#l0wskc02_rsame2"/>.</li>
<?Pub Caret 1?>
</ul></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>RSA Public Key Section</i></b> (Required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'04'</ph>, section identifier, RSA public key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph>, version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length, 12 + xxx.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved field.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>006</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>RSA public key exponent field length in bytes, <varname>xxx</varname>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Public key modulus length in bits.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>010</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>RSA public key modulus field length in bytes, which is zero for a private token.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>012</entry>
<entry>xxx</entry>
<entry>Public key exponent (this is generally a 1, 3, or 64 - 256-byte quantity), e. e must be odd
and 1 &lt; e &lt; n. (Frequently, the value of e is 2<sup>16</sup> + 1 (= 65,537). <note>You can
import an RSA public key having an exponent valued to two (2). Such a public key can correctly
validate an ISO 9796-1 digital signature. However, the current product implementation does not
generate an RSA key with a public exponent <ph>valued to two (a Rabin key)</ph>.</note></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>Private Key Name</i></b> (Optional)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'10'</ph>, section identifier, private key name.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry><ph>X'00'</ph>, version.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length, <ph>X'0044'</ph> (68 decimal).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>064</entry>
<entry>Private key name (in ASCII), left-aligned, padded with space characters (<ph>X'20'</ph>). An
access control system can use the private key name to verify the calling application is entitled to
use the key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry nameend="col3" namest="col1"><b><i>Internal Information Section</i></b> (Required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Eye catcher 'PKTN'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>PKA token type. <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Bit</dthd>
<ddhd>Meaning When Set On</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>0</dt>
<dd>RSA key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>2</dt>
<dd>Private key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>3</dt>
<dd>Public key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>4</dt>
<dd>Private key name section exists.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>5</dt>
<dd>Private key unenciphered.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>6</dt>
<dd>Blinding information present.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>7</dt>
<dd>Retained private key.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Address of token header.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>012</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Total length of total structure including this information section.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>014</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Count of number of sections.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>016</entry>
<entry>016</entry>
<entry>PKA master key hash pattern.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>032</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Domain of retained key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>033</entry>
<entry>008</entry>
<entry>Serial number of processor holding retained key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>041</entry>
<entry>007</entry>
<entry>Reserved.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000009202?>
