<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="pforequired" rev="sh15" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Required commands</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Required commands</navtitle><?Pub Caret -1?>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpfo"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpfo"></keyword>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpfo"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpfo"></keyword>)<indexterm>required
            commands</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>This verb requires the <cmdname>Recover PIN From Offset</cmdname> command (offset X'02B0') to be
enabled in the active role.</p>
<p>When the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</cmdname> command (offset
X'0350') is enabled in the active role, only a PIN-block format keyword of ISO-0 or ISO-3 is allowed
in the input <parmname>PIN_profile</parmname> parameter. Note that offset X'0350' also affects
access control of the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"/> and the
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"/> verbs. </p>
<p>When the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Use stored decimalization tables only</cmdname> command (offset
X'0356') is enabled in the active role, the <parmname>Decimalization_table</parmname> element of the
<parmname>data_array</parmname> value must match one of the PIN decimalization tables that are in
the active state on the coprocessor. Use of this command provides improved security and control for
PIN decimalization tables. </p>
<p>An enhanced PIN security mode is available for formatting an encrypted PIN-block into IBM 3624
format. This mode limits checking of the PIN to decimal digits; no other PIN-block consistency
checking will occur. To activate this mode, enable the <cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname>
command (offset X'0313') in the active role. </p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow translation from DES wrapping to weaker DES wrapping</cmdname> access control point is
enabled in the domain role, this service will fail if the <parmname>PIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> is stronger than 
the <parmname>PIN_generation_key_identifier</parmname>.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow PIN block format ISO-1</cmdname> access control is enabled in the domain role, 
the PIN block format in the <parmname>PIN_profile</parmname> parameter is not allowed to be ISO-1.</p>
<p>In releases before Release 5.4 and Release 6.2, triple-length TDES keys are not supported, thus
limiting an outbound TDES key to double length. Beginning with Release 5.4, Triple-length TDES keys
are supported, and an outbound TDES key can be double-length or triple-length. This makes it
possible for data that is encrypted using a triple-length key to be translated to data encrypted
using a weaker double-length key. Such a translation reduces the security of the data and causes a
security exposure, and <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> normally
restricts such a translation from occurring. To override this restriction, the <cmdname>Translate
from DES Key to Weaker DES Key</cmdname> command (offset X’01C3’) must be enabled in the active
role.</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000002554?>
