<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_kexusage">
<title>Usage notes</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Usage notes</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Usage notes for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkex"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Usage notes for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkex"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkex"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclkex"/>)<indexterm>usage notes</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>MACD</indexterm>
<indexterm>TOKEN</indexterm>
<indexterm>DATAM</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmkex"/>, you can use the following combinations of parameters: 
<ul>
<li>A valid key type in the <synph><var>key_type</var></synph> parameter and an internal
key token in the <synph><var>source_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter. The key
type must be equivalent to the control vector specified in the internal
key token.</li>
<li>A <synph><var>key_type</var></synph> parameter of <synph><kwd>TOKEN</kwd></synph> and an internal
key token in the <synph><var>source_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter.  The <synph><var>source_key_identifier</var></synph> can
be a label with <synph><kwd>TOKEN</kwd></synph> only if the label name is unique in
the key storage. The key type is extracted from the control vector
contained in the internal key token.</li>
<li>A valid key type in the <synph><var>key_type</var></synph> parameter, and a label
in the <synph><var>source_key_identifier</var></synph> parameter.</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section><p>If internal key tokens are supplied in the <synph><var>source_key_identifier</var></synph> or <synph><var>exporter_key_identifier</var></synph> parameters,
the key in one or both tokens can be re-enciphered. This occurs if
the master key was changed since the internal key token was last used.
The return and reason codes that indicate this do <i>not</i> indicate
which key was re-enciphered. Therefore, assume both keys have been
re-enciphered.</p></section>
<section><p>Existing internal tokens created with key type <synph><kwd>MACD</kwd></synph> must
be exported with either a <synph><kwd>TOKEN</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>DATAM</kwd></synph> key type.
The external CV will be <synph><kwd>DATAM</kwd></synph> CV. The <synph><kwd>MACD</kwd></synph> key type
is not supported.</p></section>
<section><p>To export a double-length MAC generation or MAC verification key,
it is  recommended that a key type of <synph><kwd>TOKEN</kwd></synph> be used. </p></section>
</refbody></reference>