<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference rev="hw20i1" id="tr34_userFlows" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>User flows</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>User flows</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>) TR-34 user flows</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>This section explains user actions to accomplish various tasks and how the TR-34 services
are used in context of the protocol. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>TR-34<indexterm>user flows</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody><section>
<p>There are two scenarios: <ol>
<li>Peer-to-peer exchange where two parties use the protocol to establish a common transport key to
exchange symmetric keys securely. In the peer-to-peer scenario, one party is the KDH (Key
Distribution Host) and the other party is the KRD (Key Receiving Device).</li>
<li>One KDH (Key Distribution Host) to many KRDs (Key Receiving Device) where the host uses the
protocol to establish a transport key for distributing symmetric keys with each of the receiving
devices in service.</li>
</ol></p>
</section>
<section>
<title>Parameters used in the protocol</title>
<p>The following are descriptions of some of the common parameters in the TR-34 protocol. They are
credentials, certificates, TR-34 tokens, and CCA key tokens.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>CSR-KDH</dt>
<dd>PKCS #10 certificate signing request for KDH.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CSR-KRD</dt>
<dd>PKCS #10 certificate signing request for KRD.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CredKDH</dt>
<dd>KDH credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public key.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CredKRD</dt>
<dd>KRD credential (X.509 certificate) needed for key distribution.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CredCA</dt>
<dd>Certificate Authority credential.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CRL-CA</dt>
<dd>Certificate Revocation List from CA.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CT-KDH</dt>
<dd>KDH credential token, KDH bind token.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>RBT-KDH</dt>
<dd>KDH rebind token.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>UBT-KDH</dt>
<dd>KDH unbind token.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>CT-KRD</dt>
<dd>KRD credential token, containing CredKRD.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>RT-KRD</dt>
<dd>Random number token, generated by KRD.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>KT-KDH</dt>
<dd>KDH key token – 1 or 2 pass.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>D-kdh-T</dt>
<dd>CCA RSA private key token for KDH, contains the private key (D-kdh) and public key (E-kdh).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>D-krd-T</dt>
<dd>CCA RSA private key token for KRD, contains the private key (D-krd) and public key (E-krd).</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Kn</dt>
<dd>Key to be exported using TR-34.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Kn-T</dt>
<dd>CCA key token.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p>
<note>These scenarios assume that the KDH and KRD are using IBM CCA services and servers for the
TR-34 setup and applications. When CCA services are not being used, other appropriate cryptographic
services should be substituted and used. The same situation applies to hardware and key
storage.</note>
</section></refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003278?>
