<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_cparequired" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Required commands</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Required commands</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Required commands for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The required commands for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"></keyword>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"></keyword> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"></keyword>)<indexterm>required
commands</indexterm></indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>This verb requires the commands shown in the following table to be enabled in the active role
based on the keyword specified for the PIN-calculation method: </p>
<table>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Required commands for the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> verb</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="9*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Rule-array keyword</entry>
<entry>Offset </entry>
<entry>Command</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>X'00A4'</entry>
<entry><cmdname>Clear PIN Generate Alternate - 3624 Offset</cmdname></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>X'00BB'</entry>
<entry><cmdname>Clear PIN Generate Alternate - VISA PVV</cmdname></entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
<section><p>An enhanced PIN security mode, on the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> is available for extracting PINs from
encrypted PIN blocks. This mode only applies when specifying a PIN-extraction method for an <tm
tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm>  3624 PIN-block. To do this, you must enable the
<cmdname>Enhanced PIN Security</cmdname> (offset X'0313') access control point in the default role.
When activated, this mode limits checking of the PIN to decimal digits and a PIN length minimum of 4
is enforced. No other PIN-block consistency checking will occur.</p></section>
<section><p>An enhanced PIN security mode is available to implement restrictions required by the ANSI X9.8
PIN standard. The restrictions are to accept only a <synph><var>PIN_profile</var></synph> variable
that contains a PIN-block format of ISO-0 or ISO-3. To enforce these restrictions, you must enable
the following access control points in the default role: <ul>
<li><cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Enforce PIN block restrictions</cmdname> (<ph>X'0350'</ph>)</li>
</ul></p><?Pub Caret 45?></section>
<section><p>For more information, see <xref
href="wskc_c_x98_rest.dita#l0wskc02_x98_rest"></xref>. <note>A role
with offset X'0350' enabled also affects access control of
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmptr"></keyword> and
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmspn"></keyword> verbs.</note></p></section>
<section><p>Whenever the <cmdname>ANSI X9.8 PIN - Use stored decimalization tables only</cmdname> command
(offset X'0356') is enabled in the active role, the <parmname>Decimalization_table</parmname>
element of the <synph><var>data_array</var></synph> value must match one of the PIN decimalization
tables that are in the active state on the coprocessor. Use of this command provides improved
security and control for PIN decimalization tables. The <synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph>
PIN-calculation method does not have a <parmname>Decimalization_table</parmname> element and is
therefore not affected by this command.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When the <cmdname>Disallow PIN block format ISO-1</cmdname> access control is
enabled in the domain role, the PIN block format in the <parmname>PIN_profile</parmname> parameter
is not allowed to be <synph><var>ISO-1</var></synph>.</p></section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000004029?>
