<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l0wskc02_apint" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Using AES, DES, and HMAC cryptography and verbs </title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>AES, DES, and HMAC cryptography and verbs</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"></keyword>
(<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword>):
Using AES, DES, and HMAC cryptography and verbs</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>You can use AES, DES, and HMAC cryptographic functions that <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> provides. <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> also provides cryptographic key functions,
and you can use <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> to build key
tokens.</shortdesc><?Pub Caret 0?>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>AES, DES, and HMAC cryptography and verbs</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"></keyword><indexterm>functions</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES cryptography</indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"></keyword><indexterm>data
protection</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>algorithm<indexterm>DES</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>DES algorithm</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/name4765"/> protects data from
unauthorized disclosure or modification. This coprocessor protects data stored within a system,
stored in a file off a system on magnetic tape, and sent between systems. The coprocessor also
authenticates the identity of customers in the financial industry and authenticates messages from
originator to receiver. The coprocessor uses cryptography to perform these functions.</p>
<p>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> API for the coprocessor
provides access to cryptographic functions through verbs. A verb is a routine that receives control
using a function call from an application program. Each verb performs one or more cryptographic
functions, including: <ul>
<li>Generating and managing cryptographic keys</li>
<li>Enciphering and deciphering data with encrypted keys using either the U.S. National Institute of
Standards and Technology (NIST) Data Encryption Standard (DES) or Advanced Encryption Standard
(AES)</li>
<li>Re-enciphering text from encryption under one key to encryption under another key</li>
<li>Encoding and decoding data with clear keys</li>
<li>Generating random numbers</li>
<li>Ensuring data integrity and verifying message authentication</li>
<li>Generating, verifying, and translating personal identification numbers (PINs) that identify a
customer on a financial system</li>
</ul></p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000002864?>
