<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_xpkgrestrictions">
<title>Restrictions</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle>Restrictions</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Restrictions for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkg"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The restrictions for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkg"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpkg"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclpkg"/>)<indexterm>restrictions</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Chinese Remainder Theorem</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>
<ul>
<li>The maximum public exponent is 17 bits for any key that has a
modulus greater than 2048 bits.</li>
<li>Not all <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> implementations of <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> support a CRT form of the RSA private key;
check the product-specific literature. The <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> implementations
support an optimized RSA private key (a key in Chinese Remainder Theorem format). The formats vary
between versions.</li>
<li>See <xref href="wskc_c_pkatok.dita#l0wskc02_pkatok"/> for the formats used when generating
the various forms of key tokens.</li>
<li>When generating a key for use with ANSI X9.31 digital signatures,
the modulus length must be: 1024, 1280, 1536, 1792, 2048, or 4096
bits.</li>
<li>The key label used for a retained key must not exist in the external
PKA key-storage held on the hard disk drive.</li>
<li>Due to potential loss of a retained private key within the cryptographic
engine, retained keys should be avoided for key management purposes.</li>
<li>2048-bit RSA keys may have a public exponent in the range of 1
- 256 bytes.</li>
<li>4096-bit RSA key public exponents are restricted to the values
3 and 65537.</li>
</ul></p></section>
<section>
<p>RSA key generation has the following restrictions: </p>
<ul>
<li>For Modulus-Exponent, there are restrictions on the modulus, public exponent, and private
exponent.</li>
<li>For CRT, there are restrictions on <synph><var>dp</var></synph>, <synph><var>dq</var></synph>,
<synph><var>U</var></synph>, and the public exponent.</li>
</ul>
<note rev="sh20i1">As of <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 5.4 and
<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> 6.2, this verb supports three-key
TDES keys. As a key management service this includes three-key TDES key encrypting keys
(KEKs).</note><p>See the Key value structure in <xref href="wskc_r_pkb.dita#l0wskc02_pkb"/> for a summary of
restrictions.</p>
</section>
</refbody></reference>
