<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<concept xml:lang="en-us" id="wskc_c_pkatok_secs">
<title>PKA key token sections</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>PKA key token sections</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): PKA key token sections</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>A PKA key token is either for an ECC key or an RSA key. In either case, it is the
concatenation of an ordered set of sections.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>PKA key token sections</indexterm>
<indexterm>PKA key token<indexterm>RSA</indexterm><indexterm>ECC</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>RSA key token</indexterm>
<indexterm>ECC key token</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<section id="pka_keytok_sections">
<p>PKA key tokens can be built with the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmpkb"/> verb. Either RSA or ECC key tokens can
be built.</p>
<p>An RSA key-token is a concatenation of these ordered sections: </p>
<ul>
<li>A token header: <ul>
<li>An external header (first byte X'1E')</li>
<li>An internal header (first byte X'1F')</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>An optional RSA private-key section in one of the token types shown in <xref
href="#wskc_c_pkatok_secs/opt_rsa_pksections" format="dita"/>: <table id="opt_rsa_pksections">
<title>Optional RSA private key sections</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Optional RSA private key sections. A table with five columns.</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="5">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col4" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col5" colwidth="1*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Private key section identifier (token type)</entry>
<entry>Modulus bit length and key format</entry>
<entry>RSA key not protected by an object protection key (OPK)</entry>
<entry>RSA key protected by OPK that is wrapped by DES KEK or PKA MK</entry>
<entry>RSA key protected by OPK that is wrapped by an AES key</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col5">External RSA key tokens (first byte of PKA key-token header
X'1E')</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'02' (RSA-PRIV)</entry>
<entry>512 - 1024 M-E (Modulus-Exponent)</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by DES KEK</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'05' (input only, replaced by X'08')</entry>
<entry>512 - 2048 CRT (Chinese-Remainder Theorem)</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'08' (RSA-CRT)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 CRT</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by DES KEK</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'09' (RSAMEVAR)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 M-E</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by DES KEK</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'30' (RSA-AESM)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 M-E</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by AES KEK</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'31' (RSA-AESC)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 CRT</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by AES KEK</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col5">Internal RSA key tokens (first byte of PKA key-token header
X'1F')</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'05' (input only, replaced by X'08')</entry>
<entry>512 - 2048 CRT</entry>
<entry>Private key wrapped by PKA MK</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'06' (old RSA-PRIV)</entry>
<entry>512 - 1024 M-E</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by PKA MK</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'08' (RSA-CRT)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 CRT</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by PKA MK</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'30' (RSA-AESM)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 M-E</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by APKA MK</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'31' (RSA-AESC)</entry>
<entry>512 - 4096 CRT</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>N/A</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by OPK, with OPK data wrapped by APKA MK</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</li>
<li>a required RSA public-key section (section identifier X'04')</li>
<li>an optional PKA private-key name section (section identifier X'10')</li>
<li>for internal key-tokens with private keys in X'02' or X'05' sections, a required RSA private-key
blinding section (section identifier X'FF'), otherwise not allowed <table id="rsa_pk_blinding">
<title>RSA private-key blinding information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">RSA private-key blinding information. A table with three columns.</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="5*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Section identifier: <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>X'FF'</dt>
<dd>RSA private-key blinding information</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>Used with internal key tokens created by the CCA Support Program, Version 1 (having section
identifiers X'02' or X'05').</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Section version number (X'00').</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length in bytes (34+<i>rrr</i>+<i>iii</i>+<i>xxx</i>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the internal information subsection cleartext, offset 28 to the section
end. This hash value is checked after an enciphered private key is deciphered for use.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length in bytes of the encrypted secure subsection.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>026</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3">Start of the encrypted secure information subsection. An
internal token with section identifiers X'02' or X'05' uses the asymmetric master key and the EDE3
algorithm. See <xref href="wskc_c_algtdes.dita#l0wskc02_algtdes"/>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>028</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the random number <varname>r</varname>, in bytes: <i>rrr</i>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>030</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the random number multiplicative inverse <varname>r</varname><sup>-1</sup>, in
bytes: <i>iii</i>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>032</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Length of the padding field, in bytes <i>xxx</i>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>034</entry>
<entry><i>rrr</i></entry>
<entry>Random number <varname>r</varname> (used in blinding).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>034 + <i>rrr</i></entry>
<entry><i>iii</i></entry>
<entry>Random number <varname>r</varname><sup>-1</sup> (used in blinding).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>034 + <i>rrr</i> + <i>iii</i></entry>
<entry><i>xxx</i></entry>
<entry>X'00' padding of length <i>xxx</i> bytes such that the length from the start of the encrypted
subsection to the end of the padding field is a multiple of 8 bytes.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3"> End of the encrypted secure information subsection.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</li>
<li>an optional PKA public-key certificate section (section identifier X'40' with subsidiary
sections).</li>
</ul>
<p>An ECC key-token is a concatenation of these ordered sections:</p>
<ul>
<li>a required PKA key-token header: <ul>
<li>an external header (first byte X'1E')</li>
<li>an internal header (first byte X'1F')</li>
<li rev="sh18i1">an optional ECC private-key section in the token type shown in <xref
href="#wskc_c_pkatok_secs/opt_ecc_pksections" format="dita"/>.</li>
</ul><table id="opt_ecc_pksections">
<title>Optional ECC private key sections</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Optional ECC private key sections. A table with three columns.</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="6*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="10*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="8*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Private key section identifier (token type)</entry>
<entry>ECC curve type: length of prime p in bits</entry>
<entry>ECC key protected by OPK that is wrapped by an AES key</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3">External ECC key tokens (first byte of PKA key-token header
X'1E')</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'20' (ECC-PAIR)</entry>
<entry>
<lines>
Brainpool:
160, 192, 224, 256, 320, 384, or 512
</lines>
<lines>
Prime:
192, 224, 256, 384, or 521
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>Private key in the clear or wrapped by OPK, with OPK and its data wrapped by AES KEK</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col3">Internal ECC key tokens (first byte of PKA key-token header
X'1F')</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>X'20' (ECC-PAIR)</entry>
<entry>
<lines>
Brainpool:
160, 192, 224, 256, 320, 384, or 512
</lines>
<lines>
Prime:
192, 224, 256, 384, or 521
</lines>
</entry>
<entry>Private key wrapped by OPK, with OPK and its data wrapped by APKA MK</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></li>
<li>a required ECC public-key section (section identifier X'21')</li>
<li>an optional PKA private-key name section (section identifier X'10')</li>
<li>an optional PKA public-key certificate section (section identifier X'40')</li>
<li>an optional ECC key-derivation information section (section identifier X'23').</li>
</ul>
</section>
</conbody>
</concept>
