<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_cpaparameters">
<title>Parameters</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclcpa"/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_encryption_key_identifier<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_generation_key_identifier<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_profile<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"
/> verb</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>PAN_data parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>encrypted_PIN_block<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>rule_array_count<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>personal identification number (PIN)<indexterm>algorithm
value</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>VISA-PVV algorithm</indexterm>
<indexterm>algorithm<indexterm>VISA-PVV</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>IBM-PINO</indexterm>
<indexterm>VISA-PVV</indexterm>
<indexterm>PINBLOCK</indexterm>
<indexterm>PADDIGIT</indexterm>
<indexterm>HEXDIGIT</indexterm>
<indexterm>PINLENnn</indexterm>
<indexterm>PADEXIST</indexterm>
<indexterm>PIN_check_length<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>returned_PVV parameter<indexterm><keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/></indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry><pt>PIN_encryption_key_identifier </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p rev="sh21i1">The identifier of the key to encrypt the PIN block. The key identifier is an operational token or 
the key label of an operational token in key storage. The key may be a DES key (all PIN block formats except
ISO-4) or an AES key (PIN block format ISO-4).</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For DES keys, the control vector in the fixed-length token must specify an 
<synph><kwd>IPINENC</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>OPINENC</kwd></synph> key type.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES keys, the variable-length symmetric key token must have a token algorithm of
AES and a key type of PINPROT. In addition, the key usage fields may indicate that the key can be
used for encryption (ENCRYPT) with PIN function usage PIN generate (EPINGEN) or decryption (DECRYPT)
with PIN function usage CPINGENA. The encryption mode must be Cipher Block Chaining (CBC), common
usage control must be NOFLDFMT, and PIN block format usage must be ISO-4.</p>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PIN_generation_key_identifier </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A 64-byte string that consists of an internal token that contains a PIN generation
(<synph><kwd>PINGEN</kwd></synph>) key or the label of a PINGEN key.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PIN_profile </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The three 8-byte character elements that contain information necessary to extract a PIN from
a formatted PIN block. The pad digit is needed to extract the PIN from a 3624 or 3621 PIN block in
the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> verb. See <xref
href="wskc_c_pinppp.dita#l0wskc02_pinppp"/> for additional information. </pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PAN_data </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
<p rev="sh21i1">A primary account number (PAN) in character format. The service uses this
parameter if the PIN profile specifies the <synph><kwd>ISO-0</kwd></synph>,
<synph><kwd>ISO-3</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph>, or
<synph><kwd>VISA-4</kwd></synph> keyword for the PIN block format. Otherwise, ensure that this
parameter is a 12-byte value in application storage. The information in this parameter is 
ignored, but the parameter must be specified.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the <synph><kwd>ISO-0</kwd></synph>, <synph><kwd>ISO-3</kwd></synph>, 
or <synph><kwd>VISA-4</kwd></synph> keyword, the value is 12 bytes long. Use the 12 rightmost
digits of the PAN data, excluding the check digit.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">When using the <synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph> keyword, the value is 21 bytes long.
The PAN data is 10 – 19 bytes long. The length of the PAN data and the PAN data are contained in the
structure below padded to 21 bytes with characters that are ignored.</p>
<table rev="sh21i1" pgwide="0">
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"></colspec>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="3*"></colspec>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="3*"></colspec>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset</entry>
<entry>Length</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>0</entry>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>Length of the PAN data field, p.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2</entry>
<entry>p</entry>
<entry>10 to 19 bytes of PAN data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>2+p</entry>
<entry>0-9</entry>
<entry>Padding.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>encrypted_PIN_block</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The field that receives the 8-byte or 16-byte encrypted PIN block. When the PIN block format is
<synph><kwd>ISO-4</kwd></synph>, the PIN block is 16 bytes long. For all other formats, the PIN block is 8 bytes long.
The service uses the key that is specified in the <parmname>PIN_encryption_key_identifier</parmname> parameter to encrypt
the block.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array_count </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the <i>rule_array</i>
variable. This value must be 1 or 2. If the default extraction method for a PIN block format is
desired, specify the <i>rule_array_count</i> value as 1.</pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The process rule for the PIN generation algorithm. Specify
<synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph> or <synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph> (the VISA PIN verification
value) in an 8-byte field, left-aligned, and padded with blanks. The
<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> points to an array of one or two 8-byte elements. The
<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords are described in <xref
href="#l0wskc02_cpaparameters/l0wskc02_cpgaael"/>.<table id="l0wskc02_cpgaael" pgwide="0"
frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="140*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="328*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="bottom" align="left">Keyword</entry>
<entry valign="bottom" align="left">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2" valign="top" align="left"><b><i>PIN calculation method</i></b>
(One required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left"><synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">This keyword specifies use of the <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm> 3624 PIN Offset calculation method.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left"><synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">This keyword specifies use of the VISA PVV calculation
method.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2" valign="top" align="left"><b><i>PIN extraction method</i></b>
(One optional) See the text following this table.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><p>If the <synph><var>PIN extraction method</var></synph> is provided, one of the PIN
extraction method keywords shown in <xref href="wskc_c_pbf.dita#l0wskc02_pbf/l0wskc02_newtb2"/> can
be specified for the given PIN block format. See <xref href="wskc_c_pbf.dita#l0wskc02_pbf/pbfandpem"
/> for additional information. If the default extraction method for a PIN block format is desired,
specify the <i>rule_array_count</i> value as 1.</p><p>The PIN extraction methods operate as follows: <dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>PINBLOCK</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use one of the following: <ul>
<li>The PIN length, if the PIN block contains a PIN length field</li>
<li>The PIN delimiter character, if the PIN block contains a PIN delimiter character.</li>
</ul></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PADDIGIT</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the pad value in the PIN profile to identify the end of the
PIN.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>HEXDIGIT</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the first occurrence of a digit in the range from <ph>X'A'</ph> to
<ph>X'F'</ph> as the pad value to determine the PIN length.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PINLEN<synph><var>nn</var></synph></dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the length specified in the keyword, where
<synph><var>nn</var></synph> can range from 04 - 16, to identify the PIN. <p>The
PINLEN<synph><var>nn</var></synph> keywords are disabled for this verb by default. If these keywords
are used, return code 8 with reason code 33 is returned. To enable them, the <cmdname>Enhanced PIN
Security</cmdname> command (bit <ph>X'0313'</ph>) must be enabled using a TKE.</p></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>PADEXIST</dt>
<dd>Specifies that the verb use the character in the 16th position of the PIN block as the value of
the pad value.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></p></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>PIN_check_length </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The length of the PIN offset used only for the <synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph> process
rule. Otherwise, this parameter is ignored. Specify an integer from 4 - 16. <note>The PIN check
length must be less than or equal to the integer specified in the
<synph><var>PIN_length</var></synph> parameter.</note></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>data_array </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Three 16-byte elements. <xref href="#l0wskc02_cpaparameters/l0wskc02_cpael3"/> describes the
format when <synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph> is specified. <xref
href="#l0wskc02_cpaparameters/l0wskc02_cpael4"/> describes the format when
<synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph> is specified.<table id="l0wskc02_cpael3" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Array elements for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>,
data_array (IBM-PINO)</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Array elements for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>, data_array (IBM-PINO)</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="7*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry valign="bottom" align="left">Array element</entry>
<entry valign="bottom" align="left">Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Decimalization_table</entry>
<entry>This element contains the decimalization table of 16 characters (0 - 9) that are used to
convert hexadecimal digits (<ph>X'0'</ph> - <ph>X'F'</ph>) of the enciphered validation data to the
decimal digits (<ph>X'0'</ph> - <ph>X'9'</ph>). <p>If the ANSI X9.8 PIN - Use stored decimmalization
table only access control point (<ph>X'0356'</ph>) is enabled in the active role, this table must
match one of the active decimalization tables in the coprocessors.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left">validation_data</entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">This element contains 1 - 16 characters of account data. The data
must be left-aligned and padded on the right with space characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left">Reserved-3</entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">This field is ignored, but you must specify it.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><table id="l0wskc02_cpael4" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Array elements for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>,
data_array (VISA-PVV)</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Array elements for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmcpa"/>, data_array (VISA-PVV)</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="7*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Array element</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>Trans_sec_parm</entry>
<entry>For <synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph> only, the leftmost twelve
digits. Eleven digits of the personal account number (PAN). One digit key index. The rest of the
field is ignored.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Reserved-2</entry>
<entry>This field is ignored, but you must specify it.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>Reserved-3</entry>
<entry>This field is ignored, but you must specify it.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry><pt>returned_PVV </pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><ph rev="sh21i1">A 16-byte area that contains the result left-aligned and padded with blanks. 
When <synph><kwd>VISA-PVV</kwd></synph> is specified, this is a 4 byte value. When <synph><kwd>IBM-PINO</kwd></synph> 
is specified, the value is the same length as the clear PIN.</ph></pd></plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
