<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference rev="hw20i1" id="TR34_BindComplete" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> verb for
operations that take place at the Key Receiving Device (KRD) during TR-34-Bind related operations,
as specified in X9 TR34-2012.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"
/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmt34c"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>X9 TR34-2012</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody><section>
<p>The TR-34 protocol describes the data objects and cryptograms needed for securely provisioning a
symmetric key from a Key Distribution Host (KDH) to a Key Receiving Device (KRD). Although designed
for 1-way key distribution, such as between a host computer (KDH) and an ATM (KRD), the protocol can
be used for peer-to-peer key distribution as well. The main requirement for either use of the
protocol is a Certificate Authority (CA) trusted by both the KDH and the KRD.</p>
<p> This service is used to perform these operations:<ul>
<li>BINDKRDC: The TR34 BIND token (CT-KRD) CREATE service creates the TR-34 token that contains
Cred-KRD that is needed by the KDH.<ul>
<li>CredKRD: (INPUT, <i>cred_krd</i>). KRD credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>CT-KRD: (OUTPUT, <i>output_token</i>). Credential token for KRD, containing Cred-KRD in DER
format.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>BINDRV: The TR34 BIND token (CT-KDH) RECEIVE service processes the BIND request on the KRD.<ul>
<li>CT-KDH token: (INPUT, <i>input_token</i>). BIND token received from KDH.</li>
<li>CredKDH; (OUTPUT, <i>output_token</i>). Credential (X.509 certificate), in DER format, for the
KDH, needs to be stored in the KRD.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>UNBINDRV: The TR34 UNBIND token (UBT-KDH) RECEIVE service processes the UNBIND request on the KRD.<ul>
<li>UBT-KDH token: (INPUT, <i>input_token</i>). UNBIND token received from KDH.</li>
<li>CredKDH: (INPUT, <i>cred_kdh</i>). KDH credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>CredKRD: (INPUT, <i>cred_krd</i>). KRD credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>RT-KRD: (INPUT, <i>random_number_token</i>). Token originally sent by the KRD to the KDH and now
used for validation.</li>
<li>&lt;validity> : (OUTPUT, return/reason code). UBT-KDH – is – valid.</li>
</ul></li>
<li>REBINDRV: The TR34 REBIND token (RBT-KDH). RECEIVE service processes the REBIND request on the KRD.<ul>
<li>RBT-KDH: (INPUT, <i>input_token</i>). REBIND token received from KDH.</li>
<li>CredKDH: (INPUT, <i>cred_kdh</i>). Old KDH credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>CredKRD: (INPUT, <i>cred_krd</i>). KRD credential (X.509 certificate) with ID and public
key.</li>
<li>RT-KRD: (INPUT, <i>random_number_token</i>). Token originally sent by the KRD to the KDH and now
used for validation.</li>
<li>&lt;validity>: (OUTPUT, return/reason code). RBT-KDH – is – valid.</li>
<li>Cred-KDH-NEW: (OUTPUT, <i>output_token</i>). New KRD credential (X.509 certificate), in DER
format, needs to be stored in the KRD.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul><note othertype="Notes" type="other">
<ol>
<li>The RT-KRD token can be created with correct formatting using the RT-KRD processing of the
CSNBRNGL service. See <xref href="wskc_r_rng.dita"/> for more details.</li>
<li>RSA 2048 bit and 3072 bit keys will be supported by CCA. This allows strength equivalent to an
AES 128-bit key. TR-34 explicitly supports only RSA 2048-bit keys so some vendors will only support
that key size.</li>
</ol>
</note></p>
</section></refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000037185?>
