<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="fpeeparameters" rev="sh15">
<title>Parameters</title><titlealts>
<navtitle>Parameters</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Parameters for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpee"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The parameters for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpee"
/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmfpee"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpee"
/>)<indexterm>parameters</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>For the definitions of the <synph><var>return_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>reason_code</var></synph>, <synph><var>exit_data_length</var></synph>,
and <synph><var>exit_data</var></synph> parameters, see <xref href="wskc_c_vparms.dita#l0wskc02_vparms"/>.</p></section><section>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>rule_array_count</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>A pointer to an integer variable containing the number of elements in the
<parmname>rule_array</parmname> variable. The minimum value is 5. The maximum value is 10.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry><pt>rule_array</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String array</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Keywords that provide control information to the verb. The
<synph><var>rule_array</var></synph> keywords are described in <xref
href="#fpeeparameters/fpee_table" format="dita"/>.<note>At least one character set keyword is
required.</note>
<table id="fpee_table" pgwide="1" frame="all">
<title>Keywords for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpee"/> control
information</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Keywords for <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclfpee"/> control information</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="2*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="14*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Keyword</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Processing method</i></b>
(required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>VMDS</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the VDSP method (Visa Data Secure Platform
method, formally known as the Visa Merchant Data Secure (VMDS) method) is to be used for
processing.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Key management method</i></b>
(one required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>STATIC</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of double length (2-key) triple-DES symmetric
keys. This is a non-DUKPT key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>DUKPT</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of the transaction unique general purpose Data
Encryption Keys generated by the DUKPT process at the point of service for data encryption. This is
required if VFPE mode is specified. Otherwise, this is optional.
<p rev="sh21i1">Both DES DUKPT and AES DUKPT key derivation methods are
supported. The content of the <parmname>derivation_data</parmname> parameter determines 
which DUKPT method is used.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Algorithm</i></b>
(required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TDES</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of CBC mode triple-DES encryption.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Mode</i></b> (one
required)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>CBC</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of CBC mode. This is the mode for the standard
encryption option.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>VFPE</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the use of Visa format preserving encryption.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PAN input output character
set</i></b> (one required if the <parmname>clear_PAN_length</parmname> variable is greater than 0.
Otherwise, it is not allowed.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>PAN8BITA</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the PAN data character set is BASE-10 ASCII
represented in binary form. Valid ASCII values are in the range 0 - 9 (X'30' - X'39').</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>PAN4BITX</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the PAN data character set is BASE-10 4-bit hex with
two digits per byte. Valid 4-bit hexadecimal values are in the range X'0' - X'9'.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Cardholder name input output
character set</i></b> (required if the <parmname>clear_cardholder_name_length</parmname> variable is
greater than 0. Otherwise, it is not allowed.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>CN8BITA</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry rev="sh16i1">Specifies that the cardholder name character set is ASCII represented in binary
format, one character per byte. See <xref
href="wskc_vfpe_concept.dita#vfpe_concept/vfpe_alphabet_field_type"/> for valid characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Track_1 input output character
set</i></b> (required if the <parmname>clear_dtrack1_data_length</parmname> variable is greater than
0. Otherwise, it is not valid.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TK18BITA</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry rev="sh16i1">Specifies that the track 1 discretionary data character set is ASCII represented
in binary format, one character per byte. See <xref
href="wskc_vfpe_concept.dita#vfpe_concept/vfpe_alphabet_field_type"/> for valid characters.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>Track_2 input output character
set</i></b> (required if the <parmname>clear_dtrack2_data_length</parmname> variable is greater than
0. Otherwise, it is not valid.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>TK28BITA</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Specifies that the track 2 discretionary data character set is
ASCII represented in binary format, one character per byte. Valid ASCII values are in the range 0 -
9 (X'30' - X'39') and A - F (X'41' - X'46').</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PIN encryption key output
selection</i></b> (one, optional)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>NOPINKEY</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Do not return a DUKPT PIN encryption key. This is the
default.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry valign="top" align="left"><synph><kwd>PINKEY</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry valign="top" align="left">Return a DUKPT PIN encryption key.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry namest="col1" nameend="col2"><b><i>PAN check digit
compliance</i></b> (one required if mode VFPE and the pan input output character set keyword is
present. Otherwise, it is not allowed.)</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>CMPCKDGT</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Last digit of the PAN contains a compliant check digit per ISO/IEC
7812-1.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><synph><kwd>NONCKDGT</kwd></synph></entry>
<entry>Last digit of the PAN does not contain a compliant check digit per
ISO/IEC 7812-1.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></pd></plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_PAN_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the number of digits in the <parmname>clear_PAN</parmname> parameter. This value
must be 0 if <parmname>clear_PAN</parmname> is not to be enciphered. The value must be in the range
15 - 19 if PAN data is presented for encryption. </pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_PAN</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Contains the account number with which the PIN is associated. The full account number,
including check digit, should be included. The data for this parameter is in binary format. It is
the binary representation of 4-bit hex (keyword PAN4BITX) or ASCII (keyword PAN8BITA). If the PAN
contains an odd number of 4-bit digits, the data must be left justified in the PAN variable and the
right-most 4 bits are ignored. <p>If the <parmname>clear_PAN_length</parmname> parameter is zero,
this parameter is ignored.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_cardholder_name_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>clear_cardholder_name</parmname> parameter in bytes. This
value must be 0 if the cardholder name is not to be enciphered. The value must be in the range 2 -
32 if the cardholder name data is presented for encryption.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_cardholder_name</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Contains the card holder's full name. The data for this parameter is in binary format. It is
the binary representation of ASCII characters as defined in <xref
href="wskc_vfpe_concept.dita#vfpe_concept/vfpe_track1_discrdata_cardholder"/>. Only characters from
this table are valid.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_dtrack1_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>clear_dtrack1_data</parmname> parameter in bytes. This
value must be 0 if the track 1 discretionary data is not to be enciphered. The value must be in the
range 1 - 56 if the track 1 discretionary data is presented for encryption.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_dtrack1_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Contains the discretionary data that is stored on track 1 of a magnetic stripe card. This
data does not include the PAN, cardholder name, expiration date, or service code. The data for this
parameter is in binary format. It is the binary representation of ASCII characters as defined in
<xref href="wskc_vfpe_concept.dita#vfpe_concept/vfpe_track1_discrdata_cardholder"/>. Only characters
defined in this table are valid.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_dtrack2_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>clear_dtrack2_data</parmname> parameter in bytes. This
value must be 0 if the track 2 discretionary data is not to be enciphered. The value must be in the
range 1 - 19 if the track 2 discretionary data is presented for encryption.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>clear_dtrack2_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Contains the discretionary data that is stored on track 2 of a magnetic stripe card. This
data does not include the PAN, expiration date, or service code. The data for this parameter is in
binary format. It is the binary representation of ASCII characters. The data for this parameter is
in BASE-16 binary format. It is the binary representation of ASCII in the range X'30' -  X'39' and
X'41' - X'46' (ASCII: 0 - 9 and A - F).</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>key_identifier</parmname> parameter in bytes. <ph
rev="sh21i1">When DES DUKPT method is used set the value to 64. When AES DUKPT method is used, the
maximum value is 3500.</ph></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The identifier of the key that is used to either encrypt the card data (key management
STATIC) or derive the <parmname>DUKPT_PIN_key_identifer</parmname> (key management DUKPT). The
<term>key identifier</term> is an operational token or the key label of an operational token in key
storage. <p rev="sh21i1">For DES-DUKPT, the key type must be KEYGENKY. In addition, it must have a
control vector with bit 18 equal to B'1' (UKPT). The base derivation key is the one from which the
operational keys are derived using the DUKPT algorithm defined in ANSI X9.24-1 2007 (Part 1).</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">For AES-DUKPT, this is an AES DKYGENKY with the A-DUKPT bit set to 1 in the
low-order byte of key usage field 1, indicating this key is allowed to be used as base derivation
key (BDK). The BDK is the one from which the operational keys are derived using the DUKPT algorithm
defined in ANSI x9.24-3 2017. </p>
<p>For key management STATIC, (Zone Encryption Key in the VDSP specification), the key type must be
either CIPHER or ENCIPHER. For production purposes, it is recommended that the key have left and
right halves that are not equal.</p>
<note>Data keys are not supported.</note>
<p>If the token supplied was encrypted under the old master key, the token is returned encrypted
under the current master key.</p></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>derivation_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>derivation_data</parmname> parameter in bytes. 
<ph rev="sh21i1">To specify the DES DUKPT method, set
the value to 10 if the key management method DUKPT is specified in the rule array. To specify the AES
DUKPT method, set the value to 20 if the key management method DUKPT is specified in the rule
array. Otherwise, this value must be 0.</ph></pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>derivation_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table><ph rev="sh21i1">When specifying the DES-DUKPT method, 
the <parmname>derivation_data</parmname> parameter contains the 80 bit (10 byte) derivation
data that is used as input to the DUKPT derivation process.</ph> The derivation data contains the current key serial number (CKSN), which
is composed of the 59 bit initial key serial number concatenated with the 21 bit value of the
current encryption counter, which the device increments for each new transaction. This field is in
binary format. <p rev="sh21i1">When specifying the AES DUKPT method, parameter
<parmname>derivation_data</parmname> contains the 20 byte AES DUKPT derivation data. See <xref
href="wskc_aes_dukpt.dita#aes_dukpt/dukpt_ddata"/> for the layout of the AES DUKPT derivation data.
The algorithm indicator must be set to X'0000' (2- key TDES). The key usage indicator must be set to
X'1000' (PIN Encryption).</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_PAN_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the number of PAN digits in the <parmname>enc_PAN</parmname> parameter. This value
must either be 0 or in the range 15 - 19, inclusive on output.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_PAN</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter returns the enciphered primary account number. For VFPE mode, if the PAN
contains an odd number of 4-bit digits, the data is left-justified in the PAN variable and the
right-most 4 bits can be ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_cardholder_name_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>enc_cardholder_name</parmname> parameter in bytes. This output
value is either 0 or in the range 2 - 32 for VFPE. For CBC mode, the output value is in the range 16
- 40 and a multiple of 8 if the service is successful and cardholder name data is enciphered. The
parameter can be larger on input. However, on output, this length is updated to indicate the actual
number of bytes returned by the service.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_cardholder_name</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>The field where the enciphered cardholder full name is returned.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_dtrack1_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>enc_dtrack1_data</parmname> parameter in bytes. The
output value is either 0 or in the range 1 - 56 for mode VFPE. For mode CBC, the output value is  in
the range16 - 64 and a multiple of 8 if the service is successful and the track 1 discretionary data
is enciphered. The parameter can be larger on input. However, on output, this length is updated to
indicate the actual number of bytes returned by the service.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_dtrack1_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter returns the enciphered discretionary track 1 data.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_dtrack2_data_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>enc_dtrack2_data</parmname> parameter in bytes. The
output value is either 0 or in the range 1 - 19 for mode VFPE. For mode CBC, the output value is 8
or 16 if the service is successful and the data is enciphered. The parameter can be larger on input.
However, on output, this length is updated to indicate the actual number of bytes returned by the
service.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>enc_dtrack2_data</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter returns the enciphered discretionary track 2 data.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>DUKPT_PIN_key_identifier_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>DUKPT_PIN_key_identifier</parmname> parameter in
bytes. If the PINKEY rule-array keyword is specified, set this value to 64. Otherwise, set this
value to 0. On output, the variable is updated with the length of the data returned in the
<parmname>DUKPT_PIN_key_identifier</parmname> variable.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>DUKPT_PIN_key_identifier</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input/Output</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>On input, this parameter must contain a DES OPINENC or IPINENC skeleton token. On output, it
contains the DES token with the derived DES OPINENC or IPINENC key.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved1_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Specifies the length of the <parmname>reserved1</parmname> parameter in bytes. The value
must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved1</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved2_length</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Integer</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>Length of the <parmname>reserved2</parmname> parameter in bytes. The value must be 0.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>reserved2</pt>
<pd><table colsep="0" frame="none" outputclass="presentation" pgwide="2" rowsep="0">
<tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="1*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="5*"/>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Direction:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">Input</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry colname="col1"><b>Type:</b></entry>
<entry colname="col2">String</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>This parameter is ignored.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml></section>
</refbody></reference>
