<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_dsgrestrictions">
<title>Restrictions</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Restrictions</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Restrictions for  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsg"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>The restrictions for <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsg"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdsg"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldsg"/>)<indexterm>restrictions</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Although <synph><kwd>ISO-9796</kwd></synph> does not require the input data to be an integral
number of bytes in length, this verb requires you to specify the
<synph><var>data_length</var></synph> in bytes.</p></section>
<section><p><synph><kwd>X9.31</kwd></synph> requires the RSA token to have a minimum modulus
bit length of 1024 bits, and the length must also be a multiple of
256 bits (or 32 bytes).</p></section>
<section><p>The length of the <parmname>data</parmname> parameter in bytes must be the exact length of the
text to sign. The maximum size is 256 bytes. If you specify <synph><kwd>ZERO-PAD</kwd></synph> in
the <parmname>rule_array</parmname> parameter, the length is restricted to 36 bytes unless the RSA
key is a signature only key, then the maximum length is 256 bytes.</p></section>
<section><p>The data length limit is controlled by an access control point. If OFF (disabled), the maximum
data length limit for <synph><kwd>ZERO-PAD</kwd></synph> is the modulus length of the PKA private
key. If ON (enabled), the maximum data length limit for <synph><kwd>ZERO-PAD</kwd></synph> is 36
bytes. Only RSA key management keys are affected by this access control point. The limit for RSA
signature use only keys is 256 bytes. This new access control point is always disabled in the
default role. You must have a TKE workstation to enable it.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">The keyword CRDL-DSA is only supported with quantum safe algorithm (QSA) public keys
whose token section type is 0x’51’ and whose algorithm is <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/crystals_dil"/>.</p>
<p rev="sh21i1">The keyword CRDL-DSA is only supported with the MESSAGE input type and <parmname>data_length</parmname> 
at or below 6000 bytes.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>