<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_dec">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/>)</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/>)</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> <ph>verb</ph> to decipher data using the <ph>DES</ph> cipher
block chaining mode. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldec"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>data<indexterm>deciphering</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Decipher processing rule</indexterm>
<indexterm>processing rule<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ANSI X9.23 processing rule<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>CBC processing rule<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Cryptographic Unit Support Program (CUSP)<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>Information Protection System (IPS)<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>ANSI X9.23 padding</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>CCA supports the following processing rules to decipher data. You
choose the type of processing rule that the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> <ph>verb</ph> should
use for block chaining.</p></section>
<section>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>ANSI X9.23</dt>
<dd>For cipher block chaining. The ciphertext must be an exact multiple of eight bytes, but the
plaintext will be between 1 and 8 bytes shorter than the ciphertext. The
<synph><var>text_length</var></synph> will also be reduced to show the original length of the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Cipher Block Chaining (CBC)</dt>
<dd>The ciphertext must be an exact multiple of eight bytes and the plaintext will have the same
length.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Cryptographic Unit Support Program (CUSP)</dt>
<dd>CBC mode (cipher block chaining) that is compatible with <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm>’s CUSP and PCF products. The data need not be in exact multiples of eight bytes. The
ciphertext is the same length as the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>Information Protection System (IPS)</dt>
<dd>CBC mode (cipher block chaining) that is compatible with <tm trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg"
>IBM</tm>’s IPS product. The data need not be in exact multiples of eight bytes. The ciphertext is
the same length as the plaintext.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
</section>
<section><p>The cipher block chaining (CBC) mode uses an initial chaining value (ICV) in its processing. The
first eight bytes of ciphertext is deciphered and then the ICV is XORed with the resulting eight
bytes of data to form the first 8-byte block of plaintext. Thereafter, the 8-byte block of ciphertext is
deciphered and XORed with the previous 8-byte block of ciphertext until all the ciphertext
is deciphered.</p></section>
<section><p>The selection between single-DES decryption mode and triple-DES
decryption mode is controlled by the length of the key supplied in
the <synph><var>key_identifier</var></synph> parameter. If a single-length key is supplied,
single-DES decryption is performed. If a double-length or triple-length
key is supplied, triple-DES decryption is performed.</p></section>
<section><p>A different ICV could be passed on each call to the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdec"/> <ph>verb</ph>.
However, the same ICV that was used in the corresponding <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmenc"/> <ph>verb</ph> must
be passed.</p></section>
<section><p>Short blocks are text lengths of between one and seven bytes. A
short block can be the only block. Trailing short blocks are blocks
of between one and seven bytes that follow an exact multiple of eight
bytes. For example, if the text length is 21, there are two 8-byte
blocks and a trailing short block of five bytes. <ph>Because the DES
processes</ph> text only in exact multiples of eight bytes, some special
processing is required to decipher such short blocks.</p></section>
<section><p>These methods of treating short blocks and trailing short blocks do not increase the length of
the ciphertext compared to the length of the plaintext. If the plaintext was <i>padded</i> during
encipherment, the length of the ciphertext will always be an exact multiple of eight bytes.</p></section>
<section><p><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> supports the ANSI X9.23 padding
method. </p>
<note rev="sh18i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</note></section>
</refbody></reference>