<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="csnbdpcpinchange" rev="sh15">
  <title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpc"/> (<keyword
      conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpc"/>)</title>
  <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpc"/> (<keyword
      conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpc"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>):  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpc"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpc"/> verb to
update the personal identification number (PIN) reference value or word (PRW) for a specified
account when a cardholder uses a bank or credit card at an ATM or point-of-sale (POS) terminal to
update a card with a new PIN, in other words, to change the current PIN to a customer-selected
PIN.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpc"/> (<keyword
            conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpc"/>)</indexterm>
        <indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpc"/> (<keyword
            conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpc"/>)</indexterm>
        <indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword
              conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmdpc"/> (<keyword
              conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbcldpc"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <refbody>
    <section>
      <p rev="sh20i1">When cardholders use a terminal to update a card with a new PIN, they enter
      the current PIN and the new PIN. At the terminal, the current PIN is formatted into an ISO-0, ISO-1, ISO-2, ISO-3 or, beginning with
      Release 5.4, ISO-4 PIN-block and enciphered using a PIN encrypting key for the current PIN. Likewise,
      the new PIN is formatted into an ISO-0, ISO-1, ISO-2, ISO-3 or, beginning with Release 5.4, ISO-4 PINblock
      and enciphered using a PIN encrypting key for the new PIN.</p>
<p>The account of a cardholder is uniquely identified by a 10 - 19 digit primary account number
(PAN) of the bank or credit card. Additional information normally available on the card is a
time-sensitive card expiry date and a time-invariant (permanent) card sequence number. The verb
verifies the current PIN by deciphering the current ISO-1 PIN block and uses the recovered PIN and
other additional information to verify the current PIN. If the current PIN does not verify, the
process is aborted and an error is returned. If it does verify, the new PIN is recovered from the
new ISO-1 PIN block and is reformatted into a DK-defined PIN block that is used with a new PRW
random value and other information to calculate a new PRW. The new PRW and associated new PRW random
value are returned to be used as input later by other PIN processes for PIN verification. </p>
<p>A card script can be created and encrypted for use later to update a customer smart (chip) card.
To create a TDES-encrypted card script, specify either the <keyword>TDES-CBC</keyword> or
<keyword>TDES-ECB</keyword> script selection keyword in the rule array. Beginning with Release 4.4,
to create an AES-encrypted card script, specify <keyword>AES-CBC</keyword>.</p>
<p>If validation of the PIN is desired to personalize a smart card, specify the EPB PIN block output
selection rule-array keyword. This keyword causes an output encrypted PIN block to be returned along
with a PIN block MAC. The MAC is calculated over the output PIN block and additional card data using
the block cipher-based MAC algorithm, called CMAC (refer to <cite>NIST SP 800-38B</cite>). </p>
<p>Notes:</p>
<ol>
<li>If the PIN recovered from the <parmname>new_ISO1_PIN_block</parmname> variable is found in the
weak PIN table, it is rejected and an error is returned indicating that the selected PIN was in the
weak PIN table.</li>
<li rev="sh20i1">This verb supports <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/pcihsm2016"/> compliant-tagged key tokens.</li>
</ol>
    </section>
  </refbody>
</reference>
