<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference rev="hw20i1" id="tr34_unbind" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>UNBIND</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>UNBIND</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>) TR-34 user flow: UNBIND</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<abstract><shortdesc>Unbind a Key Receiving Device (KRD) from a Key Distribution Host (KDH).
</shortdesc>This is done before the KRD is taken out of service or if the KDH otherwise needs to
remove ownership/bind/keys from a KRD. These are the steps, in sequence, with the <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> service APIs identified:</abstract>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>UNBIND</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody><section>
<ol>
<li><b><u>On KDH </u></b><ul>
<li>The KDH requests a random number from the KRD. </li>
</ul></li>
<li><b><u>On KRD</u></b><ul>
<li>Call <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> service <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbsprngl"/> with keyword RT-KRD to create the
TR-34 token that contains the random number that is needed by the KDH.<ol>
<li><b>INPUT</b>:<ul>
<li>RN-Length: Length of the random number needed.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><b>OUTPUT</b>:<ul>
<li>RT-KRD: Random number token.</li>
</ul></li>
</ol></li>
<li>Send RT-KRD to KDH and also store RT-KRD locally in application space for the later validation
step.</li>
</ul></li>
<li><b><u>On KDH</u></b><ol>
<li>If CRL-CA held by the KDH, representing the CA shared between the KRD and KDH, is not fresh any
longer, the KDH should obtain a new CRL-CA before doing the next step.</li>
<li>Call <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> service <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34b"/> with keyword UNBINDCR. <ul>
<li><b>INPUT</b>: <ol>
<li>RT-KRD: Random number token received from KRD. </li>
<li>CRL-CA: Certificate Revocation List from CA.</li>
<li>CredKRD: KRD credential with ID and public key.</li>
<li>CredKDH: KDH credential with ID and public key.</li>
<li>D-kdh: Private key to sign data block.</li>
</ol></li>
<li><b>OUTPUT</b>: <ul>
<li>UBT-KDH: UNBIND token.</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li>KDH sends the UBT-KDH token to the KRD.</li>
</ol></li>
<li><b><u>On KRD</u></b><ol>
<li>The KRD receives the UBT-KDH token from the KDH and now must process it to complete the
UNBIND.</li>
<li>Call <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/> service <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbct34c"/> with keyword UNBINDRV.<ul>
<li><b>INPUT</b>: <ol>
<li>UBT-KDH token: UNBIND token received from KDH.</li>
<li>CredKRD: KRD credential with ID and public key.</li>
<li>CredKDH: KDH credential with ID and public key.</li>
<li>RT-KRD: Token originally sent by the KRD to the KDH, used now for validation.</li>
</ol></li>
<li><b>OUTPUT</b>:<ul>
<li>UBT-KDH – is – valid: (yes or no/error).</li>
</ul></li>
</ul></li>
<li>The application on the KRD removes all the keys associated with the KDH that sent the UNBIND
request, which completes the UNBIND phase. </li>
</ol></li>
</ol>
</section></refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003278?>
