<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_mkp">
<title><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmkp"/>)</title>
 <titlealts>
    <navtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmkp"/>)</navtitle>
    <searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>)  <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmkp"/></searchtitle>
  </titlealts>
<shortdesc>The <keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"/> verb operates on the three master-key registers:
new, current, and old. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmkp"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmkp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"/>)</indexterm>
<indexterm>processing a master key</indexterm>
<indexterm>verb<indexterm><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmmkp"/> (<keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbclmkp"/>)</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>loading a master key</indexterm>
<indexterm>master key loading</indexterm>
<indexterm>master key register</indexterm>
<indexterm>key part</indexterm>
<indexterm>SYM-MK</indexterm>
<indexterm>key storage</indexterm>
<indexterm>verification pattern</indexterm>
<indexterm>key verification pattern</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>Use the verb to perform the following services: </p>
<ul>
<li>Clear the new and clear the old master-key registers.</li>
<li>Generate a random master-key value in the new master-key register.</li>
<li>XOR a clear value as a key part into the new master-key register.</li>
<li>Set the master key, which transfers the current master-key to the old master-key register, and
the new master-key to the current master-key register. It then clears the new master-key
register.</li>
</ul>
<p>You can choose to process either the symmetric or asymmetric registers by specifying the
<synph><kwd>SYM-MK</kwd></synph> and the <synph><kwd>ASYM-MK</kwd></synph>
<i>rule_array</i> keywords.</p>
<note type="other" othertype="Tip">Before starting to load new master-key information, ensure the
new master-key register is cleared. Do this by using the <synph><kwd>CLEAR</kwd></synph> keyword in
the <i>rule_array</i>.</note>
<p>To form a master key from key parts in the new master-key register, use the verb several times to
complete the following tasks: </p>
<ul compact="yes">
<li>Clear the register, if it is not already clear.</li>
<li>Load the first key part.</li>
<li>Load any middle key parts, calling the verb once for each middle key part.</li>
<li>Load the last key part.</li>
<li>SET or confirm a master key for which the last key part has been loaded into the new master-key
register.</li>
</ul>
<p>For the SYM-MK, the low-order bit (most right) in each byte of the key is used as parity for the
remaining bits in the byte. Each byte of the key part must contain an odd number of '1' bits. <ph
rev="sh20i1">Therefore, the low-order bit  needs to be turned to '1' or '0' accordingly to make
the total number of '1's in the byte an odd number.</ph> If this is not the case, a warning is
issued. The product maintains odd parity on the accumulated symmetric master-key value.</p>
<p rev="sh20i1"/>
<p>When the last master key part is entered, this additional processing is performed: </p>
<ul>
<li>If any two of the 8-byte parts of the <i>new</i> master-key have the same value, a warning is
issued. <i>Do not ignore this warning.</i> Do not use a key with this property. </li>
<li>If any of the 8-byte parts of the <i>new</i> master-key compares equal to one of the weak
DES-keys, the verb fails with return code 8, reason code 703. See <xref
href="wskc_r_mkprelated.dita#l0wskc02_mkprelated"/> for a list of these weak keys. A parity-adjusted
version of the asymmetric master-key is used to look for weak keys.</li>
</ul>
<p>If an AES, DES or PKA key storage exists, the header record of each key storage is updated with
the verification pattern of the new, current master key.</p></section>
</refbody></reference>