<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l0wskc02_rsamee_opk" xml:lang="en-us" rev="sh16">
<title>RSA private key token, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent format with OPK section</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>RSA private key, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent with OPK</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): RSA private key, 1024-bit
Modulus-Exponent format with OPK section</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>View a table describing the RSA private key token format with section identifier X'06'.
For this key token, there is only an internal format available.</shortdesc>
<?Pub Caret 85?>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>private key<indexterm>OPK, object protection
key</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>OPK, object protection key</indexterm><indexterm>object
protection key (OPK)</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<table frame="all" id="bsm_rsas06" pgwide="1">
<title>RSA private key, 1024-bit Modulus-Exponent format with OPK section (X'06')</title>
<tgroup align="left" cols="3" colsep="1" rowsep="1">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="44*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="41*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="210*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Offset (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Length (bytes)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>000</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Section identifier: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'06'</ph></dt>
<dd>RSA private key, 1024-bit maximum Modulus-Exponent format</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>This section type is created by the <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> Version 2 and later
CCA Support Program. This section type provides compatibility and interchangeability with the CCF
hardware in <tm tmtype="reg" trademark="z/OS">z/OS</tm> processors.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Section version number (<ph>X'00'</ph>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Section length in bytes (<ph>X'0198'</ph>).</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the private-key subsection cleartext, offset 28 up to and including the
modulus that ends at offset 363.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>024</entry>
<entry>004</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>028</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key format and security flag byte.<p>Internal key-token:</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'02'</ph></dt>
<dd>Encrypted RSA private key with OPK subsection identifier</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>All other values are reserved and undefined.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>029</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Private key source flag byte: <dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'21'</ph></dt>
<dd>Imported from cleartext</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'22'</ph></dt>
<dd>Imported from ciphertext</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'23'</ph></dt>
<dd>Generated using regeneration data</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>X'24'</ph></dt>
<dd>Randomly generated</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>030</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash of all optional sections that follow the public-key section, if any, else 20 bytes
of <ph>X'00'</ph>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>050</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Key-usage and translation control flag byte.<p>Key usage:</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'11xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Only key unwrapping (KM-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'10xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Both signature generation and key unwrapping (KEY-MGMT)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><ph>B'01xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Undefined</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry rev="sh18i1">
<dt><ph>B'00xx xxxx'</ph></dt>
<dd>Only signature generation (SIG-ONLY)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>Translation control:</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx1x'</dt>
<dd>Private key translation is allowed (XLATE-OK)</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'xxxx xx0x'</dt>
<dd>Private key translation is not allowed (NO-XLATE)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>All other bits are reserved and must be zero.</p></entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh18i1">
<entry>051</entry>
<entry>001</entry>
<entry>Format restriction for digital-signature hash-formatting method: <dl compact="yes">
<dlhead>
<dthd>Value</dthd>
<ddhd>Meaning</ddhd>
</dlhead>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0000'</dt>
<dd>No format restriction</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0001'</dt>
<dd>ISO-9796 only</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0010'</dt>
<dd>PKCS-1.0 only</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0011'</dt>
<dd>PKCS-1.1 only</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0100'</dt>
<dd>PKCS-PSS only</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0101'</dt>
<dd>X9.31 only</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>B'0000 0110'</dt>
<dd>ZERO-PAD only</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><p>All other values are reserved and undefined.</p>
</entry>
</row>
<row rev="sh18i1">
<entry>052</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>054</entry>
<entry>006</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>060</entry>
<entry>048</entry>
<entry>Object Protection Key (OPK) data. 8-byte confounder, three 8-byte DES keys, and two 8-byte
initialization vector values.<p>External key-token: Reserved, binary zero.</p><p>Internal key-token:
The asymmetric master key encrypts the OPK data using the EDE3 algorithm. See <xref
href="wskc_c_algtdes.dita#l0wskc02_algtdes"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>108</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Private-key exponent, <i>d</i>. <i>d</i> =
<i>e</i><sup>-1</sup>mod((<i>p</i>-1)(<i>q</i>-1)), 1 &lt; <i>d</i> &lt; <i>n</i>, and where
<i>e</i> is the public exponent. <p>The OPK encrypts the private key exponent using the EDE5
algorithm. See <xref href="wskc_c_algtdes.dita#l0wskc02_algtdes"/>.</p></entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>236</entry>
<entry>128</entry>
<entry>Modulus, <i>n</i>. <i>n</i> = <i>pq</i>, where <i>p</i> and <i>q</i> are prime and
2<sup>512</sup> ≤ <i>n</i> &lt; 2<sup>1024</sup>.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>364</entry>
<entry>016</entry>
<entry>Asymmetric-keys master-key verification pattern.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>380</entry>
<entry>020</entry>
<entry>SHA-1 hash value of the subsection cleartext, offset 400 to the section end. This hash value
is checked after an enciphered private key is deciphered for use.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>400</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>402</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>404</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>406</entry>
<entry>002</entry>
<entry>Reserved, binary zero.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000006259?>
