<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE reference
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN" "ibm-reference.dtd">
<reference xml:lang="en-us" id="l0wskc02_appareascod16">
<title>Reason codes that accompany return code 16</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Reason codes that accompany return code 16</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Reason codes that accompany return code
16</searchtitle>
</titlealts><shortdesc>Reason codes that accompany return code 16. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata><keywords>

<indexterm>reason codes<indexterm>with return code 16</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section><p>These codes are listed in <xref href="#l0wskc02_appareascod16/l0wskc02_rcrc16"/>. </p>
<table id="l0wskc02_rcrc16" pgwide="1">
<title>Reason codes for return code 16</title>
<desc>
<p outputclass="summary">Reason codes for return code 16</p>
</desc>
<tgroup cols="3">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="4*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="6*"/>
<colspec colname="col3" colwidth="33*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Return code, decimal</entry>
<entry>Reason code, decimal (hex)</entry>
<entry>Description</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>099 (063) </entry>
<entry>An unrecoverable error occurred in the security server; contact the <tm
trademark="IBM" tmtype="reg">IBM</tm> support center.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>336 (150) </entry>
<entry>An error occurred in a cryptographic hardware or software component. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>337 (151) </entry>
<entry>A device software error occurred. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>339 (153) </entry>
<entry>A system error occurred in the interprocess communication routine.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>444 (1BC) </entry>
<entry>The verb-unique-data has an invalid length. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>556 (22C) </entry>
<entry>The request parameter block failed consistency checking. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>708 (2C4) </entry>
<entry>The cryptographic engine is returning inconsistent data.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>709 (2C5) </entry>
<entry>Cryptographic engine internal error. Could not access the master-key data.
</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>710 (2C6) </entry>
<entry>An unrecoverable error occurred while attempting to update master-key data
items. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>712 (2C8) </entry>
<entry>An unexpected error occurred in the master-key manager. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>800 (320)</entry>
<entry>A problem occurred in internal SHA operation processing.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2022 (7E6)</entry>
<entry>TKE-related internal file open error.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2047 (7FF) </entry>
<entry>Unable to transfer request data from host to coprocessor. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2057 (809) </entry>
<entry>Internal error: memory allocation failure. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2058 (80A)</entry>
<entry>Internal error: unexpected return code from OAEP routines. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2059 (80B)</entry>
<entry>Internal error: OAEP SHA-1 request failure. </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2061 (80D)</entry>
<entry>Internal error in <keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/vbnmsyi"/>, OAEP-decode: enciphered message too
long.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2063 (80F)</entry>
<entry>The reply message too long for the requestor's command reply buffer.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2107 (83B)</entry>
<entry>Internal files failed verification check when loading from encrypted
storage.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2150 (866)</entry>
<entry>An error occurred while attempting to open or save the DECTABLE SRDI that is
stored on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="shd3">
<entry>16</entry>
<entry>2195 (893)</entry>
<entry>An error occurred reading the weak PIN file stored on the coprocessor.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup>
</table></section>
</refbody></reference>
