<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic
  PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Topic//EN" "ibm-topic.dtd">
<topic xml:lang="en-us" id="bsm_derived_unique_kpk_trans_key" rev="sh21i1">
<title>Deriving an ANS X9.24 DUKPT key</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Deriving an ANS X9.24 DUKPT key</navtitle>
<searchtitle><keyword conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca_long"/> (<keyword
conref="wskc_conref-l0wskc04.dita#conref-l0wskc04/cca"/>): Deriving an ANS X9.24 DUKPT
key</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>UKPT</indexterm>
<indexterm>CKSN</indexterm>
<indexterm>current key serial number</indexterm>
<indexterm>unique key per transaction</indexterm>
<indexterm>ANS X9.24 DUKPT key</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<body>
<p>To determine the current-transaction encrypting key used by a terminal which is encrypting
PIN-blocks under the ANS X9.24 standard, the ANS X9.24 algorithm uses a derivation key and the
current-key serial number (CKSN) as inputs. <ul>
<li>The derivation key must be a double-length KEYGENKY key-type with the UKPT control vector bit
set on. The right half of the derivation key cannot be the same as the left half of the derivation
key.</li>
<li>The <i>initial key serial number</i> is a 59-bit value that contains terminal identification
information that is unique among the set of terminals initialized under a given derivation key.</li>
<li>The <i>encryption counter</i> is a 21-bit counter value. The value in the counter is set to 0
when the terminal is initialized. The counter increments each time the terminal performs a PIN-block
encryption. The counter increments such that a maximum of 10 bits can be set on; the counter can
record 1.000.000 encryptions.</li>
<li>The CKSN is the concatenation of the initial key serial number and the encryption counter. This
concatenation is an 80-bit (10-byte) value.</li>
</ul></p>
<p>The calculation method consists of the following steps: <ol>
<li>Calculate the initial encrypting key. To calculate the initial encrypting key, do the following: <ol>
<li>Move the leftmost 8 bytes of the CKSN to a work area (<i>C<sub>a</sub></i>).</li>
<li>Perform an AND operation with the last byte of C<sub>a</sub> and <ph>X'EO'</ph>. This operation
clears the high-order bits of the encryption counter. The value that C<sub>a</sub> now contains is
the initial serial number that was loaded when the PIN keypad was initialized.</li>
<li>Encrypt C<sub>a</sub>, using the left half of the derivation key; name the result
C<sub>b</sub>.</li>
<li>Decrypt C<sub>b</sub>, using the right half of the derivation key; name the result
C<sub>c</sub>.</li>
<li>Encrypt C<sub>c</sub>, using the left half of the derivation key; name the result C<sub>d</sub>.
C<sub>d</sub> is the initial PIN encrypting key that was loaded when the terminal was
initialized.</li>
<li>Rename C<sub>d</sub> to be <i>K<sub>a</sub></i>, the initial PIN encrypting key.</li>
</ol></li>
<li>Calculate the current encrypting key. To calculate the current encrypting key, do the following: <ol>
<li>Move the rightmost 8 bytes of the CKSN to a work area (<i>W<sub>a</sub></i>).</li>
<li>Move the rightmost 3 bytes of W<sub>a</sub> to another work area (<i>C<sub>a</sub></i>).</li>
<li>Perform an AND operation with the rightmost 3 bytes of W<sub>a</sub> with <ph>X'E00000'</ph>.
This operation clears the encryption counter from W<sub>a</sub>.</li>
<li>Perform an AND operation with C<sub>a</sub> and <ph>X'1FFFFF'</ph>. This operation clears the
low-order bits of the initial serial number from the encryption counter.</li>
<li>Initialize a 3-byte area to <ph>X'100000'</ph>; name the result S<sub>a</sub>.</li>
<li>Initialize a 1-byte counter to <ph>X'00'</ph>; name the result B<sub>a</sub>.</li>
<li>Test each bit of the encryption counter, looking for <ph>B'1'</ph> bits by doing the following
loop: <ul>
<li>When a <ph>B'1'</ph> bit is found, it ORs this bit into the initial serial number. It then
special encrypts the result with K<sub>a</sub>.</li>
<li>The result of this special encryption is the new K<sub>a</sub>.</li>
<li>When all <ph>B'1'</ph> bits are processed, a <i>variant</i> of the value in K<sub>a</sub>
becomes the current encrypting key.</li>
</ul> Use the following procedure to do this loop: <codeblock>DO i=1 to 21
 a. IF (C<sub>a</sub> AND S<sub>a</sub>) is not equal to 0 THEN DO
    1) ADD 1 to B<sub>a</sub>
    2) IF B<sub>a</sub> &gt; 10 THEN exit algorithm with an error
       indicating too many <ph><ph>B'1'</ph></ph> bits were set in the encryption
       counter
    3) OR S<sub>a</sub> into the rightmost 3 bytes of W<sub>a</sub>;
       store the result in T<sub>a</sub>
    4) XOR T<sub>a</sub> and K<sub>a</sub>; store the result in T<sub>b</sub>
    5) Encrypt T<sub>b</sub> with K<sub>a</sub>; store the result in T<sub>c</sub>
    6) XOR T<sub>c</sub> with K<sub>a</sub>; store the result in K<sub>a</sub>
 b. END IF
 c. Shift S<sub>a</sub> one bit to the right.
    Fill in on the left with a <ph><ph>B'0'</ph></ph> bit.
 END DO</codeblock> The value in K<sub>a</sub> is the current encrypting key. <note>The CCA
implementation does not adjust key parity on any of the bytes of the derived encrypting key before
encrypting them under its master key. Parity adjustment is not done because the key value is used in
two XOR operations during the <i>special decrypt</i> process of recovering the clear
PIN-block.</note></li>
</ol></li>
</ol></p>
<p>The following is an example of calculating the initial PIN encrypting key:
<codeblock>Derivation key = <ph><ph>X'5152 5457 585B 5D5E 6162 6467 686B 6D6E'</ph></ph>
Current key serial number = <ph><ph>X'0123 4567 89AB CDF0 0001'</ph></ph>
 
C<sub>a</sub> = <ph><ph>X'0123 4567 89AB CDE0'</ph></ph>
C<sub>b</sub> = <ph><ph>X'6497 E2F4 C59D 952E'</ph></ph>
C<sub>c</sub> = <ph><ph>X'0163 CE85 359F F599'</ph></ph>
 
Initial PIN encrypting key = K<sub>a<sub>1</sub></sub> = C<sub>d</sub> = <ph><ph>X'21EE 7C08 DBE8 20AB'</ph></ph></codeblock></p>
<p>The following is an example of calculating the current PIN encrypting key:
<codeblock>W<sub>a</sub> = <ph><ph>X'4567 89AB CDE0 0000'</ph></ph>
C<sub>a</sub> = <ph><ph>X'10001'</ph></ph>
S<sub>a<sub>1</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'100000'</ph></ph>
 
 
T<sub>a<sub>1</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'4567 89AB CDF0 0000'</ph></ph>
T<sub>b<sub>1</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'6489 F5A3 1618 20AB'</ph></ph>
T<sub>c<sub>1</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'F9AC C638 1939 44BC'</ph></ph>
K<sub>a<sub>2</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'D842 BA30 C2D1 6417'</ph></ph>
⋮
S<sub>a<sub>20</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'000001'</ph></ph>
T<sub>a<sub>20</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'4567 89AB CDF0 0001'</ph></ph>
T<sub>b<sub>20</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'9D25 339B 0F21 6416'</ph></ph>
T<sub>c<sub>20</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'BF49 836E AE2A 042A'</ph></ph>
K<sub>a<sub>20</sub></sub> = <ph><ph>X'670B 395E 6CFB 603D'</ph></ph>
 
Current PIN encrypting key = <ph><ph>X'670B 395E 6CFB 60C2'</ph></ph></codeblock>
</p>
</body>
</topic>