<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="l31xce00_configuring_ep11tok" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Adding tokens to <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/></title>
  <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
 <titlealts>
  <navtitle>Adding tokens to <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/></navtitle>
  <?Pub Caret -1?>
  <searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/>: Adding tokens to <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/></searchtitle>
 </titlealts>
 <shortdesc>You can introduce one or multiple token instances of any type into the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> framework. For this purpose, you must define a slot
entry for each desired token in the global <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
configuration file called <filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath>. This section
describes in detail how to add tokens of type <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/>
(<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/>), because this covers all possible
features. Perform the same actions analogously for other token types. Wherever a feature is only
available for <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/>, this is indicated.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"
/><indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm id="configuring">configuring <indexterm><keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/></indexterm><indexterm>multiple <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/></indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>multiple <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"
/><indexterm>configuring</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>configuration file<indexterm>ep11tok01.conf</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm><indexterm>ep11tok01.conf</indexterm></indexterm>
        <indexterm>ep11tok01.conf configuration file</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/></indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <conbody>
<note>Currently, for <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/> only,
you can configure each token instance differently using a specific <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/> (see <xref href="lxoc_tok_ep11_conffile.dita"
/>).<p>For example, if you want to configure multiple <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens">to</keyword>, you can assign dedicated adapters and
domains to different tokens respectively. This ensures data isolation between multiple
applications.</p></note>
<p>If you use multiple <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/>, you must specify
a unique token directory in the slot entry for each token, using the <codeph>tokname</codeph>
attribute. This token directory receives the token-individual information (like for example, key
objects, user PIN, SO PIN, or hashes). Thus, the information for a certain <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> is separated from other <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/>.</p>

<p>The default <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> directory is
<filepath>/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11tok/</filepath>. You can use the default only for a single
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> . Resulting examples for multiple
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> directories can be: <codeblock>
/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11token1/
/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11token2/
</codeblock></p>
<note>A certain token configuration applies to all applications that use this <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>.</note>
<section><title>Adding a slot entry for each <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> in <filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath>
</title><indexterm>slot entry,
defining</indexterm><indexterm><filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath></indexterm><p>As already
mentioned, the default <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration file
<codeph>opencryptoki.conf</codeph> provides a slot entry for the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>. It is preconfigured to slot #4. Each slot entry
must set the <codeph>stdll</codeph> attribute to <codeph>libpkcs11_ep11.so</codeph>. Check this
default entry to find out whether you can use it as is.</p><p>For each configured <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, you must create a specific <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/>. This <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/>-specific configuration file defines the target adapters
and target adapter domains to which the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>
sends its cryptographic requests.</p><p>In turn, each slot entry in the global <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration file must specify this <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/>. For this purpose, use the
<codeph>confname</codeph> attribute with the unique name of the respective <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/> as value. </p>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/></indexterm>
<p>The example from <xref href="#l31xce00_configuring_ep11tok/lxce_global_ock_configfile"
format="dita"/> configures two <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokens"/> in slots
4 and 5. It defines the names of the specific token configuration files to be
<codeph>ep11tok01.conf</codeph> and <codeph>ep11tok02.conf</codeph>. Per default, these files are
searched in the directory where <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> searches
its global configuration file. <xref href="#l31xce00_configuring_ep11tok/lxoc_ep11tok_config"
format="dita"/> shows an example of an <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"
/>.</p><?Pub Caret 109?><fig id="lxce_global_ock_configfile" expanse="column">
<title>Multiple <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> instances</title>
<screen>
slot 4
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ep11.so
confname = ep11tok01.conf
tokname = ep11token01 
description = "Ep11 Token"
manufacturer = "IBM"
hwversion = "4.11"
firmwareversion = "2.0"
}

slot 5
{
stdll = libpkcs11_ep11.so
confname = ep11tok02.conf  /* only for EP11 tokens  */
tokname = ep11token02 
}

</screen>
</fig><fig id="lxoc_ep11tok_config" expanse="column">
<title>Sample of an <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/>
</title>
<codeblock>
#
# EP11 token configuration
#
APQN_WHITELIST
0 0
0 1
2 84
END
FORCE_SENSITIVE
STRICT_MODE
VHSM_MODE
CPFILTER /etc/opencryptoki/ep11cpfilter.conf
OPTIMIZE_SINGLE_PART_OPERATIONS
DIGEST_LIBICA DEFAULT
USE_PRANDOM
</codeblock>
</fig>
</section>
 </conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000000808?>
