<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="ica_recognize" xml:lang="en-us" rev="shv2">
	<title>How to recognize the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/></title>
	<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
	<titlealts>
		<navtitle>Recognize the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/></navtitle>
		<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/>: <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> and how to recognize the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/></searchtitle>
	</titlealts>
	<abstract>
		<shortdesc>You can use the <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command to display a table that
			shows all available tokens. You can check the slot and token information, and the PIN
			status at any time.</shortdesc>
	</abstract>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>status information</indexterm>
				<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>status
information</indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>pkcsconf -t</indexterm>
				<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/><indexterm>status
information</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<conbody>
		<section>
			<p>The following information provided by the <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command about the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/> is returned in the <term>Token
Info</term> section, where, for example, <codeph>Token #1 Info</codeph> displays information about
the token plugged into slot number 1.<fig id="tokunin">
<title>Token info before initialization</title>
<screen rev="30i1">
$ pkcsconf -t
Token #0 Info:
        Label: IBM ICA  PKCS #11
        Manufacturer: IBM Corp.
        Model: IBM ICA
        Serial Number: 123
        Flags: 0x880045 (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED|SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)
        Sessions: 0/18446744073709551614
        R/W Sessions: 18446744073709551615/18446744073709551614
        PIN Length: 4-8
        Public Memory: 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
        Private Memory: 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
        Hardware Version: 1.0
        Firmware Version: 1.0
        Time: 14:48:30
</screen>
</fig><?Pub Caret 294?></p>
			<p>The most important information is as follows:<ul>
					<li>The token <parmname>Label</parmname> you assigned at the initialization phase (<codeph>IBM
ICA PKCS #11</codeph>, in the example). You can initialize or change a token label by using the
<codeph>pkcsconf -I</codeph> command. In the output from <xref href="#ica_recognize/tokin"
format="dita"/> you see the label changed to <codeph>icatest</codeph>.</li>
					<li>The <parmname>Model</parmname> name is unique and designates the token that
						is in use. </li>
					<li>The <parmname>Flags</parmname> provide information about the token initialization status,
the PIN status, and features such as <b><i>Random Number Generator</i></b> (RNG). They also provide
information about requirements, such as <b><i>Login required</i></b>, which means that there is at
least one mechanism that requires a session log-in to use that cryptographic function. <p>The flag
USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED indicates that the user PIN must be changed before the token can be used. The
flag SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED indicates that the SO PIN must be changed before administration commands
can be used.</p><p>For more information about the flags provided in this output, see the description
of the TOKEN_INFO structure and the Token Information Flags in the <xref
href="lxoc_conref.dita#links/pkcs11_standard_url"/>.</p></li>
					<li>The <parmname>PIN length</parmname> range declared for this token.</li>
				</ul></p>
<fig id="tokin">
<title>Token info after initialization</title>
<screen rev="30i1">
Token #0 Info:
        Label: icatest
        Manufacturer: IBM Corp.
        Model: IBM ICA
        Serial Number: 123
        Flags: 0x44D (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|USER_PIN_INITIALIZED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|TOKEN_INITIALIZED)
        Sessions: 0/18446744073709551614
        R/W Sessions: 18446744073709551615/18446744073709551614
        PIN Length: 4-8
        Public Memory: 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
        Private Memory: 0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF/0xFFFFFFFFFFFFFFFF
        Hardware Version: 1.0
        Firmware Version: 1.0
        Time: 14:56:24
</screen>
</fig>
<p><xref href="#ica_recognize/tokunin" format="dita"/> shows the information for an uninitialized
token, and <xref href="#ica_recognize/tokin" format="dita"/> shows the information for an
initialized one.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003131?>
