<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="lxoc_ock_tokens" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Token specifications</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Token specifications</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Token specifications</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/App_devs"/> find documentation about
available token mechanisms to be invoked from cryptographic applications. <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/> find additional token-specific tools and
information about required token-specific configurations, if applicable. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>token-specific configurations</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm> token-specific
configurations</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>Each token plugged into <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> can implement a
selection of the provided <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> mechanisms to be
used in application programs. The names of these mechanisms start with the prefix
<codeph>"CKM_"</codeph>. For example, the <codeph>CKM_AES_KEY_GEN</codeph> mechanism generates an
AES cryptographic key. This mechanism is offered by the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/>, the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/>, the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, and the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/softtoken"/>, and can therefore be used to generate an AES key
by any application that accesses one or more of these tokens.</p>
<p>Each company which collaborates with the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
open source community can contribute their own specific mechanisms to <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>. For example, all mechanisms added to the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11">s</keyword> standard by <ph
conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmtm"/> start with the vendor-specific prefix
<codeph>"CKM_IBM_"</codeph>. An example for an <ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmtm"
/>-specific <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> mechanisms is
<codeph>CKM_IBM_SHA3_384_HMAC</codeph> which you can use from an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> to sign and verify a message using the SHA3-384
hash function. </p>
<p>Issue the <cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname> command with the <option>-m</option> parameter to display
all mechanisms that are supported by the token of interest residing in the slot specified with
parameter <option>-c</option>. <screen>$ pkcsconf -m -c &lt;slot></screen></p>
<p>For example, if you want to display all supported <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> mechanisms of an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/> that resides in slot number <codeph>1</codeph>
in your environment, issue the following command:</p>
<screen># pkcsconf -m -c 1</screen>
<p>The output depends on the supported Crypto Express coprocessors together with the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> version. The beginning of the output list may look
as shown in <xref href="#lxoc_ock_tokens/sample_mechs" format="dita"/>. The name corresponds to the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> specification. Each mechanism provides its
supported key size and some further properties such as hardware support and mechanism information
flags. These flags provide information about the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> functions that may use the mechanism. Typical
functions are for example, <term>encrypt</term>, <term>decrypt</term>, <term>wrap key</term>,
<term>unwrap key</term>, <term>sign</term>, or <term>verify</term>. For some mechanisms, the flags
show further attributes that describe the supported variants of the mechanism.</p>
<fig id="sample_mechs"><title>List of supported mechanisms for a certain token</title></fig>
<screen>
Mechanism #0
        Mechanism: 0x0 (CKM_RSA_PKCS_KEY_PAIR_GEN)
        Key Size: 512-4096
        Flags: 0x10001 (CKF_HW|CKF_GENERATE_KEY_PAIR)
Mechanism #1
        Mechanism: 0x1 (CKM_RSA_PKCS)
        Key Size: 512-4096
        Flags: 0x67B01 (CKF_HW|CKF_ENCRYPT|CKF_DECRYPT|CKF_SIGN|CKF_SIGN_RECOVER|CKF_VERIFY|CKF_VERIFY_RECOVER|CKF_WRAP|CKF_UNWRAP)
Mechanism #2
        Mechanism: 0x3 (CKM_RSA_X_509)
        Key Size: 512-4096
        Flags: 0x67B01 (CKF_HW|CKF_ENCRYPT|CKF_DECRYPT|CKF_SIGN|CKF_SIGN_RECOVER|CKF_VERIFY|CKF_VERIFY_RECOVER|CKF_WRAP|CKF_UNWRAP)
&mldr;</screen>
<p><xref href="lxoc_tok_common.dita"/> provides documentation that applies to all <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token types.</p>
<p otherprops="pdf">The following token-specific information is provided:</p>
<ul otherprops="pdf">
<li><xref href="lxoc_tok_cca.dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tok_ica.dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tok_ep11.dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tok_soft.dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tok_all_dir.dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tok_icsf.dita"/></li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003393?>
