<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="lxoc_tool_p11sak" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Listing and generating keys - <cmdname>p11sak</cmdname> utility</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle><cmdname>p11sak</cmdname></navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: The <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> tool <cmdname>p11sak</cmdname> - list and generate
symmetric and asymmetric keys</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <cmdname>p11sak</cmdname> tool to list the token keys in an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token repository with their <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> attributes. You can also use the tool to generate and
delete symmetric and asymmetric keys in an <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
token repository. </shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>p11sak tool</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token repository</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>The general invocation scheme of the command line tool is:</p>
<codeblock>p11sak COMMAND [ARGS] [OPTIONS]</codeblock>
<syntaxdiagram frame="all" expanse="page">
<title>p11sak syntax - General invocation scheme</title>
<groupseq>
<kwd>p11sak</kwd>
<sep> </sep>
<var>&lt;subcommand></var>
<groupchoice>
<groupseq>
<groupcomp importance="optional">
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>args</kwd>
</groupcomp>
<groupcomp importance="optional">
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>options</kwd>
</groupcomp>
</groupseq>
</groupchoice>
</groupseq>
</syntaxdiagram>
<p>where </p>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>subcommand</pt>
<pd>is described in the following sections:<ul>
<li><xref href="#lxoc_tool_p11sak/p11_genkey" format="dita"/>
</li>
<li><xref href="#lxoc_tool_p11sak/p11_listkey" format="dita"/>
</li>
<li><xref href="#lxoc_tool_p11sak/p11_delete" format="dita"/></li>
</ul></pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
<p>Also, read the information in section <xref href="#lxoc_tool_p11sak/pk11_help" format="dita"/> to
learn how to use the tool efficiently.</p>
</section>
<section id="p11_genkey">
<title>Generate a key</title>
<p>Use the <cmdname>p11sak generate-key</cmdname> subcommand to generate keys in the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token repository. The tool supports the generation
of:</p><ul>
<li>symmetric keys (AES, 3DES, DES) with <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/>
attributes</li>
<li>asymmetric keys (RSA, EC) with <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/>
attributes.</li>
</ul>

<syntaxdiagram frame="all" expanse="page">
<title>p11sak syntax - Generate a key</title>
<groupseq>
<kwd>p11sak</kwd>
<sep> </sep>
<var>generate-key</var>
<groupchoice>
<groupcomp><var>des</var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>3des</var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>aes </var><groupchoice>
<groupcomp><kwd>128</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>192</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>256</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupchoice></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>rsa </var><groupchoice>
<groupcomp><kwd>1024</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>2048</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>4096</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupchoice></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>ec </var><groupchoice>
<groupcomp><kwd>prime256v1</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>secp384r1</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>secp521r1</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupchoice></groupcomp>
</groupchoice><groupseq>
<groupcomp>
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--slot</kwd><var>&lt;slot ID></var>
</groupcomp>
<groupcomp importance="optional">
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--pin</kwd><var>&lt;PIN></var>
</groupcomp>
<groupcomp>
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--label</kwd><var>&lt;key name></var>
</groupcomp>
<groupcomp importance="optional">
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--exponent</kwd><var>&lt;number></var>
</groupcomp>
</groupseq><groupseq>
<groupcomp importance="optional">
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--attr</kwd>
<kwd> [M | R | L | S | E | D | G | V | W | U | A | X | N]</kwd>
</groupcomp>
</groupseq>
</groupseq></syntaxdiagram>
<p>where </p>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>des</pt>
<pd>specifies a symmetric DES key to be generated.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>3des</pt>
<pd>specifies a symmetric triple DES key.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>aes</pt>
<pd>specifies a symmetric AES key to be generated. You must specify a key length in bits: 128, 192,
or 256.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>rsa</pt>
<pd>specifies an asymmetric RSA key pair (private and public) to be generated. You must specify a
key length in bits: 1024, 2048, or 4096.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>ec</pt>
<pd>specifies an elliptic curve key pair (private and public) to be generated. You must specify an
elliptic curve for the ECC key pair: prime256v1, secp384r1, or secp521r1.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>--slot</pt>
<pd>specifies the slot ID of an <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token with
the repository.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>--pin</pt>
<pd>specifies the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token repository user
PIN.  If not specified, the user can enter the PIN on request.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>--label</pt>
<pd> specifies the label (name) of the generated key. This option is mandatory.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>--exponent</pt>
<pd>specifies an exponent for an RSA key pair generation. This option is optional and only
considered for RSA key pair generation. The default is 65537.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>--attr</pt>
<pd>This option is optional and sets one or more of the binary key attributes to TRUE if the
respective letters from the subsequent list is specified. If an attribute is not set explicitly, the
default values are used. For multiple attributes add the respective letters without white space, for
example: <codeph>MLD</codeph>.<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>M</dt>
<dd>CKA_MODIFIABLE</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>R</dt>
<dd>CKA_DERIVE</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>L</dt>
<dd>CKA_LOCAL</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>S</dt>
<dd>CKA_SENSITIVE</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>E</dt>
<dd>CKA_ENCRYPT</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>D</dt>
<dd>CKA_DECRYPT</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>G</dt>
<dd>CKA_SIGN</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>V</dt>
<dd>CKA_VERIFY</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>W</dt>
<dd>CKA_WRAP</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>U</dt>
<dd>CKA_UNWRAP</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>A</dt>
<dd>CKA_ALWAYS_SENSITIVE</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>X</dt>
<dd>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>N</dt>
<dd>CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>The key attributes CKA_TOKEN and CKA_PRIVATE are set by default.</p>
</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
<section id="p11_listkey">
<title>List keys in the repository</title>
<p>The tool supports the listing of:</p>
<ul>
<li>symmetric keys (AES, 3DES, DES) with <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/>
attributes,</li>
<li>asymmetric keys (RSA, EC) with <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/>
attributes,</li>
<li>public, private and secure keys.</li>
</ul>
<p>With the options in the <cmdname>list-key</cmdname> subcommand, you can filter the keys that you
want to list. They have the same meaning as described in section <xref
href="#lxoc_tool_p11sak/p11_genkey" format="dita"/>. The <parmname>--long</parmname> or
<parmname>-l</parmname> parameter produces the long output format. If omitted, you obtain a short
output format.</p>
<p>Also, you can select either a short or a long listing format.</p>
<syntaxdiagram frame="all" expanse="page">
<title>p11sak syntax - Listing keys</title>
<groupseq>
<kwd>p11sak</kwd>
<sep> </sep>
<var>list-key</var>
<groupchoice importance="optional">
<groupcomp><var>des</var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>3des</var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>aes </var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>rsa </var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>ec </var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>public </var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>private </var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>secret </var></groupcomp>
</groupchoice><groupseq>
<groupcomp><kwd>--slot</kwd><var>&lt;slot ID></var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>--pin</kwd><var>&lt;PIN></var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp importance="optional"><kwd>--long, -l</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupseq>
</groupseq></syntaxdiagram>
<p>In addition to the <cmdname>generate-key</cmdname> subcommand, there are the following
options:</p>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>public</pt>
<pd>selects only public keys to be listed.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>private</pt>
<pd>selects only private keys to be listed.
</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>secret</pt>
<pd>selects only secret keys to be listed.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
<p><b>Example for a listing output in short format (default)</b></p>
<screen>
# p11sak list-key aes --slot 1

| M R L S E D G V W U X A N | KEY TYPE | LABEL
|---------------------------------------+-------------+-------------
| 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-M-1.key
| 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-M-2.key
| 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-2.key
| 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-2.key
| 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-MR.key
| 1 1 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-MRLSE.key
| 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 | AES 128 | 2020-04-29_aes128-MRLSEDGVWUAX
</screen>

<p><b>Example for a listing output in long format</b></p>
<screen>
# ./p11sak list-key 3des --slot 1 --pin 11223344 -l
Label: 2020-04-04_3DES.key
Key: 3DES
Attributes:
CKA_TOKEN: CK_TRUE
CKA_PRIVATE: CK_TRUE
CKA_MODIFIABLE: CK_TRUE
CKA_DERIVE: CK_FALSE
CKA_LOCAL: CK_TRUE
CKA_SENSITIVE: CK_FALSE
CKA_ENCRYPT: CK_TRUE
CKA_DECRYPT: CK_TRUE
CKA_SIGN: CK_TRUE
CKA_VERIFY: CK_TRUE
CKA_WRAP: CK_TRUE
CKA_UNWRAP: CK_TRUE
CKA_EXTRACTABLE: CK_TRUE
CKA_ALWAYS_SENSITIVE: CK_FALSE
CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE: CK_FALSE

Label: 2020-04-16_2_des.key
Key: 3DES
Attributes:
CKA_TOKEN: CK_TRUE
CKA_PRIVATE: CK_TRUE
CKA_MODIFIABLE: CK_TRUE
CKA_DERIVE: CK_FALSE
CKA_LOCAL: CK_TRUE
CKA_SENSITIVE: CK_FALSE
CKA_ENCRYPT: CK_TRUE
CKA_DECRYPT: CK_TRUE
CKA_SIGN: CK_TRUE
CKA_VERIFY: CK_TRUE
CKA_WRAP: CK_TRUE
CKA_UNWRAP: CK_TRUE
CKA_EXTRACTABLE: CK_TRUE
CKA_ALWAYS_SENSITIVE: CK_FALSE
CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE: CK_FALSE

...
</screen>
</section>
<section id="p11_delete">
<title>Remove a key</title>
<p>Use the <cmdname>p11sak remove-key</cmdname> subcommand to remove keys from the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token repository. The tool supports the deletion of:</p><ul>
<li>symmetric keys (AES, 3DES, DES)</li>
<li>asymmetric keys (RSA, EC).</li>
</ul>
<syntaxdiagram frame="all" expanse="page">
<title>p11sak syntax - Removing keys</title>
<groupseq>
<kwd>p11sak</kwd>
<sep> </sep>
<var>remove-key</var>
<groupchoice importance="optional">
<groupcomp><var>des</var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>3des</var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>aes </var><groupchoice>
<groupcomp><kwd>128</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>192</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>256</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupchoice></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>rsa </var><groupchoice>
<groupcomp><kwd>1024</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>2048</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>4096</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupchoice></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><var>ec </var><groupchoice>
<groupcomp><kwd>prime256v1</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>secp384r1</kwd></groupcomp>
<groupcomp><kwd>secp521r1</kwd></groupcomp>
</groupchoice></groupcomp>
</groupchoice><groupseq>
<groupcomp importance="optional"><kwd>--slot</kwd><var>&lt;slot ID></var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp importance="optional"><kwd>--pin</kwd><var>&lt;PIN></var></groupcomp>
<groupcomp>
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--label</kwd><var>&lt;key name></var>
</groupcomp>
<groupcomp>
<sep> </sep>
<kwd>--all</kwd>
</groupcomp>
</groupseq>
</groupseq></syntaxdiagram>
<p>With the parameters you can select the key or the keys that you want to delete.</p>
<p>The arguments that define the key type are optional if the <parmname>--label</parmname> option is
set. The <parmname>--label</parmname> option takes precedence over the key type and deletes all keys
with that label. If the key type is given, it must be used with the <parmname>--all</parmname>
option to delete all keys of the respective cipher key type. That is, the parameter
<parmname>--all</parmname> cannot be used on its own but must always be specified together with a
key type.</p>

</section>
<section id="pk11_help">
<title>Command help</title>
<p>Request general help with the following command:</p>
<codeblock># p11sak -h</codeblock>
<p>to receive the following information:</p>
<screen>
Usage: p11sak COMMAND [ARGS] [OPTIONS]

Commands:
generate-key        Generate a key
list-key            List keys in the repository

Options:
-h, --help          Show this help
</screen>
<p>Request help for a subcommand, for example:</p>
<codeblock># p11sak generate-key -h
# p11sak list-key -h</codeblock>
<p>For the <cmdname>generate-key</cmdname> subcommand, you receive the following information:</p>
<screen>
Usage: p11sak generate-key [ARGS] [OPTIONS]

Args:
     des
     3des
     aes [128 | 192 | 256]
     rsa [1024 | 2048 | 4096]
     ec [prime256v1 | secp384r1 | secp521r1]

Options:
     --slot SLOTID                           openCryptoki repository token SLOTID.
     --pin PIN                               pkcs11 user PIN 
     --label LABEL                           key label LABEL to be listed
     --exponent EXP                          set RSA exponent EXP
     --attr [M R L S E D G V W U A X N]      set key attributes
     -h, --help                              Show this help

</screen>
<p>For the <cmdname>generate-key</cmdname> subcommand, you can request help for a selected key type,
that you want to specify with the <parmname>args</parmname> parameter, for example, for a DES
key:</p>
<screen>
# p11sak generate-key des -h

Usage: p11sak generate-key des [ARGS] [OPTIONS]

Options:
     --slot SLOTID                           openCryptoki repository token SLOTID.
     --pin PIN                               pkcs11 user PIN 
     --label LABEL                           key label LABEL to be listed
     --attr [M R L S E D G V W U A X N]      set key attributes
     -h, --help                              Show this help</screen>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000014551?>
