<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="l31xce00_managing_mkeys" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Migrating master keys -  <cmdname>pkcsep11_migrate</cmdname> utility</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>pkcsep11_migrate</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Migrating master keys with
<cmdname>pkcsep11_migrate</cmdname></searchtitle>
</titlealts><abstract><shortdesc>There may be situations when the master key on (a domain of) a <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cexallplong"/> (CEX*P) must be changed, for example, if company
policies require periodic changes of all master keys. Simply changing the master keys using the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/atke"/> results in all secure keys stored in the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> to become useless. Therefore all data
encrypted by these keys are lost. To avoid this situation, you must accomplish a master key
migration process, where activities on the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/atke"/> and
on the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/linux"/> system must be
interlocked.</shortdesc> For more information about <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11session"/>, read <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/linuxonibm/liaaf/lnz_r_ep.html" format="html"
scope="external"><cite>Exploiting Enterprise PKCS #11 using openCryptoki</cite></xref>.</abstract>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>master key (MK) migration
tool<indexterm>pkcsep11_migrate</indexterm><indexterm>installing, configuring,
using</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>migration tool<indexterm>for master (wrapping) keys</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>master
key (MK)<indexterm>migration process</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>tools<indexterm>pkcsep11_migrate</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>utilities<indexterm>pkcsep11_migrate</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>wrapping key</indexterm><indexterm>pkcsep11_migrate</indexterm><indexterm>migrating master keys</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>Per default, the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> stores all token key
objects in the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/linux"/> file system in the
<filepath>/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11tok/TOK_OBJ</filepath> directory.</p>
<p>All secret and private keys are secure keys, that means they are enciphered (wrapped) with the
master key (<term>MK</term>) of the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cex_all_p"/>
adapter domain. Therefore, the master key is often also referred to as wrapping key. If master keys
are changed in a domain of a <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter, all
key objects for secure keys in the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> object
repository become invalid. Therefore, all key objects for secure keys must be re-enciphered with the
new <term>MK</term>. In order to re-encipher secure keys that are stored as <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> key objects in the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> object repository, <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> provides the master key migration tool
<cmdname>pkcsep11_migrate</cmdname>.</p>
</section>
<section>             <title>How to access the master key migration tool</title>             <p>The <term>pkcsep11_migrate</term> key migration utility is part of <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> versions 3.1 or later, which include the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> support.</p>       </section>
<section>                         <title>Prerequisites for the master
key migration process</title>                         <p>The master key migration process for the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> requires a <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/atke"/> version 7.3 environment. How to set up this environment
is described in topic <cite>Setting up the TKE environment</cite> of <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/linuxonibm/liaaf/lnz_r_ep.html" format="html"
scope="external"><cite>Exploiting Enterprise PKCS #11 using openCryptoki</cite></xref>.</p> 
                                                <p>To use the <term>pkcsep11_migrate</term>
migration tool, the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> crypto stack including
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> must be installed and configured. For
information on how to set up this environment, read <xref
href="https://www.ibm.com/support/knowledgecenter/linuxonibm/liaaf/lnz_r_ep.html" format="html"
scope="external">Exploiting Enterprise PKCS #11 using openCryptoki</xref>.</p>                 </section>
<section>
<title>The master key migration process</title><?Pub Caret -1?><p><b>Prerequisite for
re-encipherment:</b> The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> may be
configured to use more than one adapter/domain pair to perform its cryptographic operations. This is
defined in the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> configuration file. If the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> is configured to use more than one
adapter/domain pair, then all adapter/domain pairs must be configured to each have the same set of
master keys. Therefore, if a master key on one of these adapter/domain pairs is changed, it must be
changed on all those other adapter/domain pairs, too. </p>
<p>To migrate master keys on the set of adapter/domain pairs used by an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, you must perform the following steps:</p>
<ol>
<li id="mkmp1">On the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/atkews"/> (<keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/atke"/>), submit and commit the same new master key on all
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cex_all_p"/> adapter/domain combinations used by the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>. </li>
<li>On <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/linux"/>, stop all processes that are currently
using <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> with the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>.</li>
<li>On <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/linux"/>, back up the token object repository
of the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>. For example, you can use the
following commands: <screen><cmdname>cd /var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11</cmdname>
<cmdname>tar -cvzf ~/ep11TOK_OBJ_backup.tgz TOK_OBJ </cmdname></screen></li>
<li id="cmd4">On <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/linux"/>, migrate the keys of the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> object repository with the
<term>pkcsep11_migrate</term> migration tool (see the invocation information provided at the end of
these process steps). The <term>pkcsep11_migrate</term> tool must only be called once for one of the
adapter/domain pairs that the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> uses. If a
failure occurs, restore the backed-up token repository and try this step again.<note
type="attention">Do not continue with step <xref href="#l31xce00_managing_mkeys/cmd5" format="dita"
/> unless step <xref href="#l31xce00_managing_mkeys/cmd4" format="dita"/> was successful. Otherwise
you will lose your encrypted data.</note></li>
<li id="cmd5">On the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/atke"/>, activate the new master
keys on all <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> adapter/domain combinations that
the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> uses. </li>
<li>On <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/linux"/>, restart the applications that used
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> with the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>.</li>
</ol>
<p>In step <xref format="dita" href="#l31xce00_managing_mkeys/mkmp1"/> of the master key migration
process, the new master key must be submitted and committed via the TKE interface. That means the
<term>new EP11 master key</term> must be in the state <codeph>Full Committed</codeph>. The current
MK is in the state <codeph>Valid</codeph>. Now both (current and new) <term>EP11 master keys</term>
are available and accessible. The utility can now decrypt all relevant key objects within the token
and re-encrypt all these key objects with the new master key. </p>
<note>All the decrypt and encrypt operations are done inside the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11coproc"/>, that means that at no time clear key values are
visible within memory.</note>
<p><b>Invocation:</b></p><codeph>pkcsep11_migrate -slot &lt;number> -adapter &lt;number> -domain
&lt;number></codeph>
<p>The following parameters are mandatory: </p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>-slot</dt>
<dd>- slot number for the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/></dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-adapter</dt>
<dd>- the card ID; can be retrieved form the card ID in the <term>sysfs</term> (to be retrieved from
<codeph>/sys/devices/ap/cardxx</codeph>, or with <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname>.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-domain</dt>
<dd>- the decimal card domain number (to be retrieved from <codeph>/sys/bus/ap/ap_domain</codeph> or
with <cmdname>lszcrypt -b</cmdname>)</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>All token objects representing secret or private keys that are found for the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, are re-encrypted. </p><note>The adapter and
domain numbers can be specified in decimal, octal (with prefix 0), or hexadecimal (with prefix 0x)
notation. The <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname> utility displays these fields in hexadecimal
values.</note><p>
<b>Usage:</b> You are prompted for your user PIN.</p><p><b>Examples:</b><codeblock>
pkcsep11_migrate  -slot 2 -adapter 8 -domain 48
pkcsep11_migrate  -slot 0x2 -adapter 010 -domain 0x30</codeblock> Both invocations migrate the
master key for the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cryptocoproc"/> 8 (octal 010) and
domain 48 (hex 0x30) used by the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> from
slot 2.</p></section>
<section><note>The program stops if the re-encryption of a token object fails. 
In this case, restore the back-up.</note>
<p>After this utility re-enciphered all key objects, the new master key must be activated.
This activation must be done by using the TKE interface command <cmdname>Set, immediate</cmdname>. 
Finally, the new master key becomes the current master key and the previous master key must be deleted.</p>
<note>This tool is embedded in the users <codeph>sbin</codeph> path and therefore callable from everywhere.</note>
<p>To prevent token object generation during re-encryption, <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> with the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> must not be running during re-encryption. It is
recommended to make a back-up of the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>
object directory (<filepath>/usr/local/var/lib/opencryptoki/ep11tok/TOK_OBJ</filepath>).</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000014551?>
