<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<!--HW: Acrolinx run on May 13, 2015-->
<reference id="oc_restrictions" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Usage notes for <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library
functions</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Usage notes for <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library
functions</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and   <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Usage notes for <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library functions</searchtitle><?Pub
Caret 43?>
</titlealts>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<shortdesc>Read important information about the usage and restrictions of <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library functions.</shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>secure key concept</indexterm><indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library functions
<indexterm>restrictions</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library<indexterm>usage
notes</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>usage notes for <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library
functions</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<refbody>
<section>    <ul>
<li>Plain <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> key objects (that is,
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> secure key objects generated by the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> library <apiname>libcsulcca.so</apiname>) can be
extracted from sensitive <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> key objects for
the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> by accessing the value of the
CKA_IBM_OPAQUE attribute.<p>Plain <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> key objects
can be imported into sensitive <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> key objects
for the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> token by assigning the plain <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> key objects to the CKA_IBM_OPAQUE attribute value. This
import is supported for key types: <ul compact="yes">
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> DES key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> DES3 key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> AES data key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> internal RSA private key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> RSA public key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> HMAC key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> internal EC private key token</li>
<li><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> EC public key token</li>
</ul></p><p><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> AES cipher key token import is not
supported and <apiname>C_CreateObject()</apiname> returns with
CKR_TEMPLATE_INCONSISTENT.</p><p>Plain <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> key
objects can also be imported into sensitive <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
key objects for the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> by assigning the value
to the CKA_VALUE attribute or other key-type specific attributes using the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/>
<apiname>C_CreateObject()</apiname> function. This is supported for RSA private keys and for RSA
public keys. Starting with <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.14,
the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> supports the C_CreateObject() function
for AES DATA, DES, DES3, and generic secret keys in addition to RSA keys. </p> Starting with
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> 3.14, the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> also supports plain HMAC and EC keys with different
curves.</li>
<li>The default CKA_SENSITIVE setting for generating a key is CK_FALSE although the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> handles only secure keys, which correspond
to sensitive keys in <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/>.<p>Setting the value of
CKA_SENSITIVE to CK_FALSE does not inhibit inspecting the value of CKA_VALUE. This setting does not
compromise security because CKA_VALUE does not contain any sensitive or secret
information. Also, CKA_IBM_OPAQUE does not contain any information that can be exploited without the
corresponding master key.
</p></li>
<li>The function <apiname>C_DigestKey</apiname> is not supported by the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/>.</li>
</ul>       </section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000002478?>
