<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN" "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="ep11_stackoverview" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Managing tokens - <cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname> utility</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<?Pub Caret -1?>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>pkcsconf</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Configuring and administering tokens with
<cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> provides a command line program
<filepath rev="shv2">(/sbin/pkcsconf)</filepath> to configure and administer tokens that are
supported within the system. The <codeph>pkcsconf</codeph> capabilities include token
initialization, and security officer (SO) PIN and user PIN initialization and maintenance. These
PINs are required for token initialization.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>pkcsconf</indexterm>
<indexterm>utility <indexterm>pkcsconf</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>tools <indexterm>pkcsconf</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p><codeph>pkcsconf</codeph> operations that address a specific token must specify the slot that
contains the token with the <cmdname>-c</cmdname> option. You can view the list of tokens present
within the system by specifying the <cmdname>-t</cmdname> option. Type <codeph>pkcsconf
--help</codeph> or <codeph>pkcsconf -h</codeph> into a command line to show the options for the
<codeph>pkcsconf</codeph> command: </p>
<p>
<screen># pkcsconf -h 
usage: pkcsconf [-itsmlIupPh] [-c slotnumber -U user-PIN -S SO-PIN -n new PIN]</screen>
</p>
<p>The available options have the following meanings: </p>
<dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>-i</dt>
<dd>display <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> info</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-t</dt>
<dd>display token info</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-s</dt>
<dd>display slot info</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-m</dt>
<dd>display mechanism list</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-l</dt>
<dd>display slot description </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-I</dt>
<dd>initialize token</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-u</dt>
<dd>initialize user PIN</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-p</dt>
<dd>set the user PIN</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-P</dt>
<dd>set the SO PIN</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-h | --help | ?</dt>
<dd>show this help</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-c</dt>
<dd>specify the token slot ID</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-U</dt>
<dd>the current user PIN (for use when changing the user PIN with -u and -p options). If not
specified, user will be prompted.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-S</dt>
<dd>the current security officer (SO) PIN (for use when changing the SO PIN with -P option). If not
specified, user will be prompted.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>-n</dt>
<dd>the new PIN (for use when changing either the user PIN or the SO PIN with -u, -p or -P options).
If not specified, user will be prompted.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl>
<p>For more information about the <codeph>pkcsconf</codeph> command, see the <xref
href="https://linux.die.net/man/1/pkcsconf" format="html" scope="external"><cite>pkcsconf man
page</cite></xref>.</p>
<section id="start_slotd">
<title>Starting the slot manager</title>
<p>A prerequisite for accessing a token is a running slot manager daemon
(<cmdname>pkcsslotd</cmdname>) .</p>
<p>Use one of the following commands to start the slot daemon, which reads out the configuration
information and sets up the tokens:<screen>
$ service pkcsslotd start 
$ systemctl start pkcsslotd.service   /* for Linux distributions providing systemd */     
</screen></p>
<p>For a permanent solution, specify:<screen>
$ chkconfig pkcsslotd on
$ systemctl enable pkcsslotd.service  /* for Linux distributions providing systemd */</screen></p>
</section>
<section><title>Initializing a token with
<cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname></title><indexterm>pkcsconf</indexterm><indexterm>token<indexterm>initializing</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm><keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>SO PIN</indexterm><indexterm>standard
PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>security officer (SO)<indexterm>log-in
PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>SO<indexterm>log-in
PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>standard user (User)<indexterm>log-in
PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>User<indexterm>log-in
PIN</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>PIN</indexterm><indexterm>log-in PIN</indexterm><p>Once the
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration file and, if applicable,
token-specific configuration files are set up, and the <cmdname>pkcsslotd</cmdname> daemon is
started, the token instances must be initialized. Use the <cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname> command as
shown to perform this task.</p><note>As mentioned in <xref
href="lxoc_ock_features.dita#lxoc_ock_features/roles"/>, <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> defines a <b><i>security officer</i></b> (SO) and a
(standard) <b><i>User</i></b> for each token instance. <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> requires that for both a log-in PIN is defined as
part of the token initialization.</note><p>The following command provides some useful slot
information:<screen># pkcsconf -s

Slot #1 Info
        Description: ICA Token
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Flags: 0x1 (TOKEN_PRESENT)
        Hardware Version: 4.0
        Firmware Version: 2.11
...
...
Slot #4 Info
        Description: EP11 Token
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Flags: 0x1 (TOKEN_PRESENT)
        Hardware Version: 4.0
        Firmware Version: 2.10</screen></p><p>Receive more detailed information about a token using
the following command:</p><fig id="pkcsconf_t"><title>Token information with <cmdname>pkcsconf
-t</cmdname></title><screen># pkcsconf -t
...
...
Token #4 Info:
        Label: ep11tok
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Model: EP11
        Serial Number: 93AABC5H53107366
        Flags: 0x880045 (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED|SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)
        Sessions: 0/[effectively infinite]
        R/W Sessions: [information unavailable]/[effectively infinite]
        PIN Length: 4-8
        Public Memory: [information unavailable]/[information unavailable]
        Private Memory: [information unavailable]/[information unavailable]
        Hardware Version: 7.24
        Firmware Version: 3.1
        Time: 2021031912021700



</screen></fig><p>Find the token instance you want to initialize in the output list and note the
correct slot number. This number is used in the next initialization steps to identify your
token:<screen>
$ pkcsconf -I -c &lt;slot>   /* Initialize the Token and set up a Token Label */

$ pkcsconf -P -c &lt;slot>   /* change the SO PIN (recommended) */

$ pkcsconf -u -c &lt;slot>   /* Initialize the User PIN (SO PIN required) */

$ pkcsconf -p -c &lt;slot>   /* change the User PIN (optional) */</screen></p><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -I</codeph></dt>
<dd>During token initialization, you are asked for a token label. Provide a meaningful name, because
you may need this reference for identification purposes.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -P</codeph></dt>
<dd>For security reasons, <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> requires that you
change the default SO PIN (<userinput>87654321</userinput>) to a different value. Use the
<codeph>pkcsconf -P</codeph> option to change the SO PIN. </dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -u</codeph></dt>
<dd>When you enter the user PIN initialization you are asked for the newly set SO PIN. The length of
the user PIN must be 4 - 8 characters.</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt><codeph>pkcsconf -p</codeph></dt>
<dd>You must at least once change the user PIN with <codeph>pkcsconf -p</codeph> option. After you
completed the PIN setup, the token is prepared and ready for use.</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><?Pub Caret 754?><note>Define a user PIN that is different from
<userinput>12345678</userinput>, because this pattern is checked internally and marked as default
PIN. A log-in attempt with this user PIN is recognized as <term>not initialized</term>.
</note></section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000000942?>
