<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="ica_recognize" xml:lang="en-us" rev="shv2">
	<title>How to recognize tokens </title>
	<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
	<titlealts>
		<navtitle>Recognize tokens</navtitle>
		<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/>: <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> and how to recognize tokens</searchtitle>
	</titlealts>
	<abstract>
		<shortdesc>You can use the <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command to display information about all
available tokens. You can check the slot and token information, and the PIN status at any
time.</shortdesc>
	</abstract>
	<prolog>
		<metadata>
			<keywords>
				<indexterm>status information</indexterm>
				<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>status
information</indexterm></indexterm>
				<indexterm>pkcsconf -t</indexterm>
				<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/><indexterm>status
information</indexterm></indexterm>
			</keywords>
		</metadata>
	</prolog>
	<conbody>
		<section>
			<p rev="shv2">The screen from <xref href="#ica_recognize/tokunin" format="dita"/> presents
excerpts of a <cmdname>pkcsconf -t</cmdname> command output. The slot number is associated with the
shown token number. The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/> is plugged into
slot 1. Therefore, you see information about the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/> with the label <codeph>IBM ICA PKCS #11</codeph>
in section <codeph><b>Token #1 Info</b></codeph>. Accordingly, in <xref
href="#ica_recognize/tokunin" format="dita"/>, you see a <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> in slot 2, a <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/softtoken"/> in slot 3, and an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> in slot 4. </p>
<fig id="tokunin" rev="shv2">
<title>Token information</title>
<screen>
$ pkcsconf -t 
<b>
Token #1 Info:</b>
        Label: <b>IBM ICA PKCS #11</b>
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Model: ICA
        Serial Number:
        Flags: 0x880445 (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|<b>TOKEN_INITIALIZED</b>|USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED|SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)                                                                                                             
        Sessions: 0/[effectively infinite]
        R/W Sessions: [information unavailable]/[effectively infinite]
        PIN Length: 4-8
        Public Memory: [information unavailable]/[information unavailable]
        Private Memory: [information unavailable]/[information unavailable]
        Hardware Version: 0.0
        Firmware Version: 0.0
        Time: 2021081811215500
Token #2 Info:
        Label: ccatok
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Model: CCA
        Serial Number:
        Flags: 0x880045 (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED|SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)                                                                                                             D|SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)
        Sessions: 0/[effectively infinite]
        R/W Sessions: [information unavailable]/[effectively infinite]
        PIN Length: 4-8
        ...
Token #3 Info:
        Label: softtok
        ...
Token #4 Info:
        Label: ep11tok
        Manufacturer: IBM
        Model: EP11
        Serial Number: 93AABC7X69330380
        Flags: 0x80004D (RNG|LOGIN_REQUIRED|USER_PIN_INITIALIZED|CLOCK_ON_TOKEN|SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)                                                                                                             SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED)
        ...
        Hardware Version: 7.28
        Firmware Version: 3.1
        Time: 2021081811215500
</screen>
</fig>
			<p>The most important information is as follows:</p>
<ul>
<li rev="shv2">The token <parmname>Label</parmname>, either the default name or a name that you
assigned at the initialization phase. In the example,  you see that the default name
<codeph>icatok</codeph> was replaced by <codeph>IBM ICA PKCS #11</codeph> during the initialization
phase. You can initialize a token and change a token label by using the <codeph>pkcsconf -I</codeph>
command. As a result, you see the flag  <b>TOKEN_INITIALIZED</b> in the output.</li>
<li>The <parmname>Flags</parmname> provide information about the token initialization status, the
PIN status, and features such as <b><i>Random Number Generator</i></b> (RNG). They also provide
information about requirements, such as <b><i>Login required</i></b>, which means that there is at
least one mechanism that requires a session log-in to use that cryptographic function. <p>The flag
USER_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED indicates that the user PIN must be changed before the token can be used. The
flag SO_PIN_TO_BE_CHANGED indicates that the SO PIN must be changed before administration commands
can be used.</p></li>
<li>The <parmname>PIN Length</parmname> range declared for this token.</li>
</ul>
<p>For more information about the flags provided in this output, see the description of the
<b>CK_TOKEN_INFO</b> structure in <xref
href="https://docs.oasis-open.org/pkcs11/pkcs11-base/v3.0/pkcs11-base-v3.0.html" format="html"
scope="external">PKCS #11 Cryptographic Token Interface Base Specification Version 3.0</xref>.</p>
		</section>
	</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003131?>
