<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<reference id="lxoc_env_variables" xml:lang="en-us">
<title><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> environment variables</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Environment variables</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/>: <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> environment variables</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>View a table that documents the available <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> environment variables and their purpose.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm> environment
variables</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm> environment variables</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<table id="env_variables_tab"><title><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
environment variables</title><desc>
<p outputclass="summary">The table lists the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"
/> environment variables with two columns providing the name and the purpose.</p>
</desc><tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="col1" colwidth="27*"/>
<colspec colname="col2" colwidth="73*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Name</entry>
<entry>Purpose</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry><codeph>PKCSLIB</codeph></entry>
<entry>Used in some tools as path to the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
libary libopencryptoki.so. You should never change this variable. Maybe useful for debugging
information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>OCK_EP11_LIBRARY</codeph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the path to the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/>. Only of
interest, if multiple <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> libraries are installed.
Normally, you should never change this variable. Maybe useful for debugging information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>OCK_EP11_TOKEN_DIR</codeph></entry>
<entry>The standard path for the token-specific <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11tokconfig"/> is <filepath>/etc/opencryptoki/</filepath>.
You can change this path by using this variable.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>PKCS_APP_STORE</codeph></entry>
<entry>Specifies the path to the main directory. Never change this variable. Maybe useful for
debugging information.</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>PKCS11_SHMEM_FILE</codeph></entry>
<entry>Used for pointing to the SHM-Key Files. Only of interest, if you run multiple slot manager
daemons (<cmdname>pkcsslotd</cmdname>). </entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry><codeph>PKCS11_USER_PIN</codeph></entry>
<entry>Provides a possibility to transfer the <b><i>User</i></b> PIN to the
<cmdname>p11sak</cmdname> utility. It is required for running the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> tests.</entry>
</row>
<row rev="shv2">
<entry><codeph>OPENCRYPTOKI_TRACE_LEVEL</codeph></entry>
<entry>Enables logging support. If the environment variable is not set, logging is disabled by default.</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003408?>
