<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="l31xce00_whatis_opencryptoki" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>About this document</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>About this document</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: What is <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>?</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> is an open source implementation
of the <term>Cryptoki</term> API defined by the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> Cryptographic Token Interface Standard. </shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"
/><indexterm>users</indexterm><indexterm>application programmers</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>C API</indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<p>This documentation is intended for the following audience:</p>
<p><b><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/></b> manage the so called tokens
that are plugged into the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> framework. They
are responsible for adding these tokens to the slots of <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> and, if applicable, for configuring these tokens. 
They also use either <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> common tools or
token-specific tools for administrating the configured tokens. </p>
<p><b><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/App_devs"/></b> write <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> programs that exploit the cryptographic services
provided by a configured <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token. The
services of such a token either exploit <ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_ibmz"/> cryptographic
hardware or they are also backed by software tokens (<keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/softtoken"/>). </p>
<p>This documentation is divided into the following parts:</p>
<ul><li><xref href="lxoc_features_part.dita"/> describes the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> architecture and informs about configuration actions
that must be performed for all applications that want to exploit these <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> features. Most of the provided information is of
interest for both, <b><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/></b> and
<b><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/app_devs"/></b>.</li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tools_part.dita"/> documents management and key migration tools that are
helpful for <b><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/></b> to enable
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> exploitation through programs.</li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_tokens_part.dita"/> presents to <b><keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/app_devs"/></b> the documentation of the token-specific
mechanisms and information about the contents of a token directory. If a token needs additional
token-specific configuration, before it can be accessed by a cryptographic application, <b><keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/></b> find the required information here.</li>
<li><xref href="lxoc_usecases_part.dita"/> documents the basic structure of <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> applications and presents a simple, but complete
code sample for an RSA key pair generation. This part also provides a user scenario showing how to
set up a <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/softtoken"/> on a server for use from an
application on a remote client. </li>
</ul>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003393?>
