<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<reference id="l31xce00_restrictions" xml:lang="en-us">
 <title>Usage notes for the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/>
functions</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Usage notes for the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/>
functions</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Usage notes for the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/> functions</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
 <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 11, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
 <shortdesc>In this topic, you find information about certain limitations of the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/>.</shortdesc>
 <prolog>
  <metadata>
   <keywords>
    <indexterm>secure key concept</indexterm>
    <indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"
/><indexterm>restrictions</indexterm></indexterm>
    <indexterm>restrictions of <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/>
</indexterm>
    <indexterm>HSM</indexterm>
    <indexterm>hardware security module (HSM)</indexterm>
   </keywords>
  </metadata>
 </prolog>
 <refbody>
<!--compare the content of this topic with the README:  https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki/blob/master/doc/README.ep11_stdll-->
<section>
<ul>
<li>The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/> implements the <term>secure key
concept</term> as explained in the introduction of <xref href="lxoc_tok_cca.dita"/>. <p> Therefore,
the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> only knows sensitive secret keys
(CKO_SECRET_KEY). However, the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> standard
defines the default value of attribute <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph> to be
<codeph>CK_FALSE</codeph>. Thus, for previous versions of the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, all applications must have the attribute value of
<codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph> explicitly changed to <codeph>CK_TRUE</codeph> whenever an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> secret key had been generated, unwrapped, or build with
<apiname>C_CreateObject</apiname>. </p><p>Starting with the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> for <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> version 3.10, an option is implemented to change the
default value of attribute CKA_SENSITIVE to be CK_TRUE for all secret keys created with the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>. This applies to functions
<apiname>C_GenerateKey</apiname>, <apiname>C_GenerateKeyPair</apiname>,
<apiname>C_UnwrapKey</apiname>, and <apiname>C_DeriveKey</apiname> when creating key with
<codeph>CKA_CLASS = CKO_SECRET_KEY</codeph>, if the attribute <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph> is not
explicitly specified in the template. </p><p>To enable this option, you must specify keyword
<codeph>FORCE_SENSITIVE</codeph> in the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>
configuration file, as shown in <xref href="#l31xce00_restrictions/lxce_ep11tok_config2"
format="dita"/>. Note that the semantics specified with the <codeph>FORCE_SENSITIVE</codeph> keyword
matches the semantics used by <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/zos"/> for <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/>.</p><fig id="lxce_ep11tok_config2" expanse="column">
<title>Sample of an <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/> configuration
file</title>
<codeblock>#
# EP11 token configuration
#
<ph>FORCE_SENSITIVE</ph>
#
APQN_WHITELIST
5 2
6 2
END
</codeblock>
</fig></li>
<li>Keys leaving the hardware security module (HSM) are encrypted by the HSM master key (wrapping
key) and come as binary large object (BLOB). In <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>, objects can have special attributes that describe
the key properties. Besides dedicated attributes defined by the application, there are some
attributes defined as token-specific by <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>.
<p><xref href="#l31xce00_restrictions/ep11_table1_key_attributes" format="dita"/> and <xref
href="#l31xce00_restrictions/ep11_table2_key_attributes" format="dita"/> show the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> token-specific attributes and their default values for
private and secure keys.</p><table frame="all" id="ep11_table1_key_attributes"><title>Private key
(CKO_PRIVATE_KEY) default attributes of the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"
/></title><tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Private key attributes</entry>
<entry>value</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>CKA_SENSITIVE</entry>
<entry>CK_TRUE</entry>
</row>
<row>
<entry>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</entry>
<entry>CK_TRUE</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table><table frame="all" id="ep11_table2_key_attributes"><title>Secret key
(CKO_SECRET_KEY) default attributes of the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"
/></title><tgroup cols="2">
<colspec colname="c1" colnum="1" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<colspec colname="c2" colnum="2" colwidth="1.0*"/>
<thead>
<row>
<entry>Secret key attributes</entry>
<entry>value</entry>
</row>
</thead>
<tbody>
<row>
<entry>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</entry>
<entry>CK_TRUE</entry>
</row>
</tbody>
</tgroup></table></li>
<li>When you create keys the default values of the attributes CKA_ENCRYPT, CKA DECRYPT, CKA_VERIFY,
CKA_SIGN, CKA_WRAP and CKA_UNWRAP are CK_TRUE. Note, no EP11 mechanism supports the Sign/Recover or
Verify/Recover functions.<p>Even if settings of <codeph>CKA_SENSITIVE</codeph>,
<codeph>CKA_EXTRACTABLE</codeph>, or <codeph>CKA_NEVER_EXTRACTABLE</codeph> would allow accessing
the key value, then <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> returns
<codeph>00..00</codeph> as key value (due to the secure key concept). </p>
<p>For information about the key attributes, see the <xref
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#links/pkcs11_standard_url"/>.</p></li>
<li>All RSA keys must have a public exponent (CKA_PUBLIC_EXPONENT) greater than or equal to 17.</li>
<li>The Crypto Express <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> coprocessor restricts
RSA keys (primes and moduli) according to ANSI X9.31. Therefore, in the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, the lengths of the RSA primes (p or q) must be a
multiple of 128 bits. Also, the length of the modulus (<codeph>CKA_MODULUS_BITS</codeph>) must be a
multiple of 256.</li>
<li>The mechanisms <codeph>CKM_DES3_CBC</codeph> and <codeph>CKM_AES_CBC</codeph> can only wrap
keys, which have a length that is a multiple of the block size of DES3 or AES respectively. See the
mechanism list and mechanism information (<cmdname>pkcsconf -m</cmdname>) for supported mechanisms
together with supported functions and key sizes. </li>
<li>The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> coprocessor adapter can be configured
to restrict the cryptographic capabilities in order for the adapter to comply with specific security
requirements and regulations. Such restrictions on the adapter impact the capability of the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>.</li>
<li>The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> function
<apiname>C_DigestKey()</apiname> is not supported by the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11lib"/>. </li>
<li>Pure <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11"/> key objects can be extracted from
sensitive <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> key objects for the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cca"/> token by accessing the value of the CKA_IBM_OPAQUE
attribute value.</li>
</ul>
<?Pub Caret -1?>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000001279?>
