<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2008, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Topic//EN"
 "ibm-topic.dtd">
<?Pub Inc?>
<topic id="lxcommon_notices" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Notices</title>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords>
<!--Insert <indexterm> tags here-->
</keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<body id="notices_body">
<!--Use this always.-->
<p>This information was developed for products and services offered
in the U.S.A.               <!--OR INSERT YOUR COUNTRY--> <tm
tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> may
not offer the products, services, or features discussed in this document
in other countries. Consult your local <tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> representative
for information on the products and services currently available in
your area. Any reference to an <tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> product,
program, or service is not intended to state or imply that only that <tm
tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> product,
program, or service may be used. Any functionally equivalent product,
program, or service that does not infringe any <tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> intellectual
property right may be used instead. However, it is the user's responsibility
to evaluate and verify the operation of any non-IBM product, program,
or service.</p>
<p><tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg"
trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> may have patents or pending patent applications
covering subject matter described in this document. The furnishing
of this document does not give you any license to these patents. You
can send license inquiries, in writing, to: <lines><tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> Director of Licensing
IBM Corporation
North Castle Drive
Armonk, NY  10504-1785
U.S.A.</lines></p>
<!--Use this section AS-IS.-->
<p><b>The following paragraph does not apply to the United Kingdom
or any other country where such provisions are inconsistent with local
law:</b> INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION PROVIDES THIS
PUBLICATION <q>AS IS</q> WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESS
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES
OF NON-INFRINGEMENT, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
Some states do not allow disclaimer of express or implied warranties
in certain transactions, therefore, this statement may not apply to
you.</p>
<p>This information could include technical inaccuracies or typographical
errors. Changes are periodically made to the information herein; these
changes will be incorporated in new editions of the publication. <tm
tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> may
make improvements and/or changes in the product(s) and/or the program(s)
described in this publication at any time without notice.</p>
<!--The following paragraph addresses general issues of exposure in publishing
non-IBM Web addresses.  Some sites might require IPL review of these references because of specific attributes of specific
products or specific uses of Web addresses. If you know (or
think you know) of questionable circumstances
surrounding a non-IBM Web address that you want to use, contact your site IPL.-->
<p>Any references in this information to non-IBM Web sites are provided
for convenience only and do not in any manner serve as an endorsement
of those Web sites. The materials at those Web sites are not part
of the materials for this <tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation"
tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> product and use of those Web
sites is at your own risk.</p>
<!--Use the following in all books.-->
<p><tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg"
trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> may use or distribute any of the information
you supply in any way it believes appropriate without incurring any
obligation to you.</p>
<p>The licensed program described in this information and all licensed
material available for it are provided by <tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> under
terms of the <tm tmclass="ibm" tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg"
trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> Customer Agreement, <tm tmclass="ibm"
tmowner="IBM Corporation" tmtype="reg" trademark="IBM">IBM</tm> International
Program License Agreement, or any equivalent agreement between us.</p>
<!--Statement of Direction/Intent. Use the following in all documents that
contain statements about future direction or intent.-->
<p>All statements regarding IBM's future direction or intent are subject
to change or withdrawal without notice, and represent goals and objectives
only.</p>
<!--Planning-Type Statements. Use the following in all documents that are released before the product it supports is released and that contains information that could change before the product is available.-->
<p>This information is for planning purposes only. The information
herein is subject to change before the products described become available.</p>
</body><?Pub Caret?>
</topic>
<?Pub *0000005260?>
