<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<concept id="lxoc_usecases" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Programming basics and user scenarios</title>
<!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 10, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Programming basics and user scenarios</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Programming basics and user scenarios</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Learn about use cases on how to take advantage of <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> from new and existing applications.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>token-specific configurations</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm> token-specific
configurations</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<conbody>
<p>The most common <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> use cases
fall into one of two types:</p>
<ul>
<li>scenarios where <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/app_devs"/> write new security
applications using <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>,</li> <li>scenarios where <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/> want to configure
an existing application with a <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> interface to
use a certain <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> token.</li></ul>
<p>There are a variety of benefits why users may want to exploit the standardized <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> cryptographic functions:</p>
<ul>
<li>They can start using the cryptographic operations of a soft token and later switch to a hardware
security module (HSM) without changing the application code.</li>
<li>They can switch between hardware security modules (HSM) from different suppliers without
changing the code.</li>
<li>They can use the sophisticated services of a cryptographic library without coping with the
complexity of their APIs.</li>
<li>They can use different <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> tokens from
within one application to enforce isolation between the data.</li>
<li>Many software products that support encryption provide plug-in mechanisms that, if
configured, will redirect cryptographic functions to a <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> library. For example, <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ibm"/> middleware like the WebSphere Application Server and the
HTTP Server including IBM's internal cryptographic library GSKIT can be configured to use a <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/pkcs11"/> library.</li>
</ul>
<p otherprops="pdf">For developers of new <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
applications, <xref href="lxoc_usecases_basics.dita"/> first documents the basic structure of such
applications. Additionally, a simple, but complete and executable code sample for generating an RSA
private and public key pair with a specified <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"
/> token is provided.</p>
<p otherprops="pdf"><xref href="lxoc_usecases_config.dita"/> provides a user scenario showing how to
set up a <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/softtoken"/> on a server for use from an
application on a remote client.</p>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000003393?>
