<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Concept//EN"
 "ibm-concept.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<concept id="l31xce00_installing_ocryptoki" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Installing <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
</title>
    <!--SH: Acrolinx run on Apr. 14, 2014, remaining flags cannot be avoided-->
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Installing <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/></navtitle>
<searchtitle>Installing <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>The available tokens are part of the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> package. The package comes with manual pages (man
pages) that describe the usage of the tools and the format of the configuration files. The <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> package in turn is shipped with the <ph
conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/ph_loz"/> distributions. <ph rev="shv2">This package might be split
into several packages by the distributions, thus allowing to install individual tokens
separately.</ph></shortdesc>
<prolog><metadata>
<keywords><indexterm>installing <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/></indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>installing
<indexterm>from RPM</indexterm><indexterm>from DEB</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>installing from
source package</indexterm></indexterm><indexterm>source package</indexterm>
<indexterm>RPM</indexterm>
<indexterm>DEB</indexterm></keywords>
</metadata></prolog>
<conbody>
<section>       <p>Check whether you already installed <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"
/> in your current environment, for
example:<screen>
$ rpm -qa | grep -i opencryptoki /* for RPM */ 
$ dpkg -l | grep -i opencryptoki /* for DEB */</screen><note>The
command examples are distribution dependent. <codeph>opencryptoki</codeph> must in certain
distributions be specified as <codeph>openCryptoki</codeph> (case-sensitive). </note></p> 
     <p>You should see all installed <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
packages. If required packages are missing, use the installation tool of your Linux distribution to
install the appropriate <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> RPM or DEB.</p>
<note othertype="Notes" type="other">
<ul>
<li rev="shv2">You can update an installed version of <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> with a package of a newer version. Depending on the
tokens to be used, further libraries need to be installed and cryptographic adapters must be
enabled. If you had built <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> from the source
before, you <ph rev="v1i2">must</ph> remove any previous <ph rev="v1i2">installation</ph> of
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><ph rev="v2i1"> (<apiname>make
uninstall</apiname>)</ph>, before you can install a distribution package for a new <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> version.</li>
<li>Some tokens need a token-specific library to be installed on the system as a prerequisite for
usage. These are mentioned for each token in <xref href="lxoc_tokens_part.dita"/>.</li>
</ul>
</note>
</section>
<section>
<title>Installing from the RPM or DEB package</title>
            <p>The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> packages are delivered
by the distributors. Distributors build these packages as RPM or DEB packages for delivering them to
customers.</p>
            <p>Customers can install these <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
packages by using the installation tool of their selected distribution.</p>
            <p>If you received <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> as an
<term>RPM</term> package, follow the <term>RPM</term> installation process that is described in the
<xref href="https://linux.die.net/man/8/rpm" format="html" scope="external"><cite>RPM Package
Manager</cite></xref> man page. If you received an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>
<term>DEB</term> package, you can use the <cite>dpkg - package manager for Debian</cite> described
in the <xref href="https://linux.die.net/man/1/dpkg" format="html" scope="external"><cite>dpkg man
page</cite></xref>.</p>
<p>The installation from either an <term>RPM</term> or <term>DEB</term> package is the
preferred installation method. </p>
        </section>
        <section>
            <title>Installing from the source package</title>
            <p>As an alternative, for example for development purposes, you can get the latest
version (inclusive latest patches) from the <xref
href="https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki" format="html" scope="external">GitHub
repository</xref> and build it yourself. But this version is not serviced. It is suitable for
non-production systems and early feature testing, but you should not use it for production.</p>
            <p>In this case, refer to the <codeph>INSTALL</codeph> file in the top level of the
source tree. You can start from the instructions that are provided with the subtopics of this
<codeph>INSTALL</codeph> file and select from the described alternatives. If you use this
installation method parallel to the installation of a package from your distributor, then you should
keep both installations isolated from each other.</p>
            <ol>
                <li>Download the latest version of the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> sources from:
<codeblock><xref href="https://github.com/opencryptoki/opencryptoki/releases" format="html" scope="external"/></codeblock></li>
                <li>Decompress and extract the compressed tape archive (tar.gz - file). There is a
new directory named like <filepath>opencryptoki-3.xx.x</filepath>. </li>
                <?Pub Caret 67?>
                <li>Change to that directory and issue the following scripts and commands:<p>
<screen>
$ ./bootstrap.sh
$ ./configure    
$ make
$ make install</screen>
</p><p>The scripts or commands perform the following functions:</p><dl compact="yes">
<dlentry>
<dt>bootstrap</dt>
<dd>Initial setup, basic configurations</dd>
</dlentry>
<dlentry>
<dt>configure</dt>
<dd>Check configurations and build the makefile. You can specify several options here to overwrite
the defaults. For example, not all tokens are built as the default. To build the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/> as an example, specify <codeph>./configure
--enable_ccatok</codeph></dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>make</dt>
<dd>Compile and link</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl><dl>
<dlentry>
<dt>make install</dt>
<dd>Install the libraries</dd>
</dlentry>
</dl></li>
            </ol>
            <note>When installing <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> from the
source package, the location of some installed files will differ from the location of files
installed from an RPM or DEB package.</note>
        </section>
</conbody>
</concept>
<?Pub *0000005621?>
