<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<reference id="lxoc_tok_icsf_tool1_pkcsicsf" xml:lang="en-us">
<title>Configuring the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/> -
<cmdname>pkcsicsf</cmdname> utility</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>pkcsicsf</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Configuring the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/> with <cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname></searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>Use the <cmdname>pkcsicsf</cmdname> utility to add an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/> to <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> or to list available <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftoks"/>.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>pkcsficsf tool</indexterm>
<indexterm>tools<indexterm>pkcsficsf</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
<?Pub Caret 141?>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<section>
<p>Adding an <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/> to <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> creates an entry in the
<filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath> file for this token. It also creates a
<filepath>token_name.conf</filepath> configuration file in the same directory as the
<filepath>opencryptoki.conf</filepath> file, containing ICSF specific information. This information
is read by the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/>. </p>
<p>The <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/> must bind and authenticate to an
LDAP server. Several SASL authentication mechanisms (Simple Authentication and Security Layer
mechanisms) are supported. You must specify one of these mechanisms when listing the available
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftoks"/> or when adding an <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/>. <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> currently supports adding only one <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/>. </p>
<p><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ock_admins"/> can either allow the LDAP calls to
utilize existing LDAP configurations, such as <filepath>ldap.conf</filepath> or
<filepath>.ldaprc</filepath> for bind and authentication information. Or they can set the bind and
authentication information within <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> by using
this utility and its options. The information is placed in the <filepath>token_name.conf</filepath>
file to be used in the LDAP calls. When using simple authentication, the user is prompted for the
RACF password when listing or adding a token.</p>
<codeblock>
 pkcsicsf  [-h]  [-l|-a token name] [-b BINDDN] [-c client-cert-file] [-C CA-cert-file] 
           [-k privatekey] [-m mechanism] [-u URI]
</codeblock>
</section>
<section>
<title>Options</title>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt> -a token_name</pt>
<pd>adds the specified <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftok"/> to <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>-b bind_name</pt>
<pd>specifies the distinguished name to bind when using simple authentication.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
<parml>
<plentry>
<pt>-c client_cert_file</pt>
<pd>specifies the client certification file when using SASL authentication.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>-C CA_cert_file</pt>
<pd>specifies the certificate authority (CA) certification file when using SASL authentication.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>-k private_key</pt>
<pd>specifies the client private key file when using SASL authentication.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>-m auth_mechanism</pt>
<pd>specifies the authentication mechanism to use when binding to the LDAP server. Specify either
<codeph>simple</codeph> or <codeph>sasl</codeph>).</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>-l</pt>
<pd>lists available <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/icsftoks"/>.</pd>
</plentry>
<plentry>
<pt>-h</pt>
<pd>shows usage information for this utility.</pd>
</plentry>
</parml>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000003180?>
