<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!--Arbortext, Inc., 1988-2011, v.4002-->
<!DOCTYPE reference PUBLIC "-//IBM//DTD DITA IBM Reference//EN"
 "ibm-reference.dtd">
<?Pub Sty _display FontColor="red"?>
<?Pub Inc?>
<reference id="troubles" xml:lang="en-us" rev="shv2">
<title>Trouble shooting</title>
<titlealts>
<navtitle>Trouble shooting</navtitle>
<searchtitle><ph conref="lxcommon.dita#phrases/lib_title"/> and <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>: Trouble shooting</searchtitle>
</titlealts>
<shortdesc>When you run into troubles while working with <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>, the information provided in this topic may help you
to resolve your problem.</shortdesc>
<prolog>
<metadata>
<keywords>
<indexterm>trouble shooting</indexterm>
<indexterm><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/><indexterm>trouble
shooting</indexterm></indexterm>
<indexterm>check list<indexterm>trouble shooting)</indexterm></indexterm>
</keywords>
</metadata>
</prolog>
<refbody>
<?Pub Caret 0?>
<section>
<p>To react on error messages related to <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>,
perform a series of checks:</p>
<ol>
<li><xref href="#troubles/checklist" format="dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="#troubles/checksyslog" format="dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="#troubles/checktracing" format="dita"/></li>
<li><xref href="#troubles/fincheck" format="dita"/></li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="checklist">
<title>Walk through a check list</title>
<ol>
<li>
<p>Is the current user authorized in the <term>pkcs11</term> group?</p>
<p>The <term>pkcs11</term> group must be defined in file <filepath>/etc/group</filepath> of the
system. An entry in this file, like for example: <codeph>pkcs11:x:989:root</codeph>, indicates that
the <term>root</term> user is a member of the <term>pkcs11</term> group. To add a user to this
group, issue the following command: <codeph>usermod -aG pkcs11 &lt;user></codeph>.</p>
<p>Every user of <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> must be a member of this
pkcs11 group. For more information, read <xref
href="lxoc_ock_features.dita#lxoc_ock_features/access_control"/>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Is the slot manager daemon <cmdname>pkcsslotd</cmdname> up and running?</p>
<p>The <cmdname>pkcsslotd</cmdname> daemon must be active in the system to coordinate token accesses
from multiple processes. For more information, read <xref
href="lxoc_ock_features.dita#lxoc_ock_features/slot_manager"/> and <xref
href="lxoc_ock_pkcsconf.dita#ep11_stackoverview/start_slotd"/>.</p>
</li>
<li>
<p>Is the host library of the token installed that you want to exploit? </p>
<ul>
<li>For the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ccatoken"/>, the host library and its
default distribution location is
<filepath>/usr/lib64/libcsulcca.so.&lt;v>.&lt;r>.&lt;m></filepath>.</li>
<li>For the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/libicatoken"/>, the library and its
default distribution location is
<filepath>/usr/lib64/libica.so.&lt;v>.&lt;r>.&lt;m></filepath>.</li>
<li>For the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ep11token"/>, the library and its default
distribution location is <filepath>/usr/lib64/libep11.so.&lt;v>.&lt;r>.&lt;m></filepath>.</li>
<li>For the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/softtoken"/>, the library and its default
distribution location is <filepath>/usr/lib64/libcrypto.so.&lt;v>.&lt;r>.&lt;m></filepath>.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>
<p>Are the required <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/cryptocoprocs"/> available and
online?</p>
<p>Use the <cmdname>lszcrypt</cmdname> command to display a list of available cryptographic devices
and their online status.</p>
<screen>
# lszcrypt

CARD.DOMAIN TYPE  MODE        STATUS  REQUESTS
----------------------------------------------
08          CEX7C CCA-Coproc  online     10484
08.0031     CEX7C CCA-Coproc  online     10484
09          CEX7C CCA-Coproc  online        34
09.0031     CEX7C CCA-Coproc  online        34
0a          CEX7P EP11-Coproc online     24766
0a.0031     CEX7P EP11-Coproc online     24766
0b          CEX7P EP11-Coproc online     15420
0b.0031     CEX7P EP11-Coproc online     15420

</screen>
</li>
<li>
<p>Are the slot definitions correctly specified in the <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> configuration file
(<filepath>/etc/opencryptoki/opencryptoki.conf</filepath>)?</p>
<p>A list of all available tokens is required before you can use <keyword
conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/>. This list is provided by the global configuration
file called<filepath> opencryptoki.conf</filepath>. For more information, read <xref
href="lxoc_ock_config_file.dita"/>.</p>
</li>
</ol>
</section>
<section id="checksyslog">
<title>Checking the syslog messages</title>
<p><keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> issues the following syslog messages (alphabetically sorted).
Numbers (placeholder x) and names like for example &lt;file>, will be replaced in the real output.
Check the messages and correct the mentioned error.</p>
<codeblock>
C_Initialize: Invalid number of functions passed in argument structure.
C_Initialize: Application specified that OS locking is invalid. 
              PKCS11 Module requires OS locking.
C_Initialize: Module failed to attach to shared memory. Verify that the slot management daemon 
              is running, errno=x
C_Initialize: Module failed to create a socket. 
              Verify that the slot management daemon is running.
C_Initialize: Module failed to retrieve slot infos from slot deamon.
C_Initialize: Application specified that library can't create OS threads. PKCS11 Module 
              requires to create threads when event support is enabled.

Cannot read size
Cannot read boolean
Cannot malloc x bytes to read in token object &lt;file> (ignoring it)
Cannot read token object &lt;file> (ignoring it)
Cannot restore token object &lt;file> (ignoring it)
Cannot read header

chmod(&lt;file>): &lt;strerror>

connect_socket: failed to find socket file, errno=x
connect_socket: pkcs11 group does not exist, errno=x
connect_socket: incorrect permissions on socket file
connect_socket: failed to create socket, errno=x
connect_socket: failed to connect to slotmanager daemon, errno=x

Could not open &lt;lockfilename>

&lt;dlerror>

Directory(&lt;dir>) missing: &lt;strerror>

DL_Load: dlopen() failed for [&lt;dll_location>]; dlerror = &lt;dlerror>

ep11_load_host_lib: Error loading shared library &lt;file>' [&lt;strerror>]
ep11_load_host_lib: Error loading shared library 'libep11.so[.3|.2|.1]' [&lt;strerror>]
ep11_login_handler: Error: VHSM-Pin blob of adapter &lt;apqn> is not equal to other adapters 
                    for same session
ep11_login_handler: Error: Pin blob of adapter &lt;apqn> is not equal to other adapters 
                    for same session
ep11_resolve_lib_sym: Error: &lt;dlerror>

ep11tok_load_libica: Error loading shared library '&lt;file>' [&lt;strerror>]
ep11tok_load_libica: Failed to initialize the target lock
ep11tok_load_libica: Error: EP 11 library initialization failed
ep11tok_load_libica: Failed to get the EP11 library version rc=x
ep11tok_load_libica: Failed to get the target info rc=x
ep11tok_load_libica: Error: CKR_IBM_WK_NOT_INITIALIZED occurred, no master key set ?
ep11tok_load_libica: Error: CKR_FUNCTION_CANCELED occurred, control point 13 
                     (generate or derive symmetric keys including DSA parameters) disabled ?
ep11tok_load_libica: Warning: Could not get mk_vp, protected key support not available.
ep11tok_login_session: Error: A VHSM-PIN is required for VHSM_MODE.
ep11tok_handle_apqn_event: Failed to get the target info rc=x


fchmod(&lt;file>): &lt;strerror>
fchown(&lt;file>): &lt;strerror>
fchown(&lt;file>,-1,pkcs11) failed: &lt;strerror>. Tracing is disabled.

getgrnam() failed: &lt;strerror>
getgrnam(pkcs11) failed: &lt;strerror>. Tracing is disabled.
getgrnam(): &lt;strerror>
getpwuid(): &lt;strerror>

init_socket_data: read error on daemon socket, errno=x
init_socket_data: read returned with eof but we still expect x bytes from daemon

Invalid strength configuration in policy!

lock directory path too long
lock file path too long

mkdir(&lt;file>): &lt;strerror>

OPENCRYPTOKI_TRACE_LEVEL '&lt;string>' is invalid. Tracing disabled.

open(&lt;file>) failed: &lt;strerror>. Tracing disabled.
open(&lt;file>): &lt;strerror>

Parsing policy configuration failed!

POLICY: Could not retrieve "pkcs11" group!
POLICY: Could not stat configuration file &lt;file>: &lt;strerror>
POLICY: Configuration file &lt;file> should be owned by "root"
POLICY: Configuration file &lt;file> should have group "pkcs11"!
POLICY: Configuration file &lt;file> has wrong permissions!
POLICY: Unknown curve "&lt;curve>" in line &lt;line>
POLICY: allowedmechs has wrong type!
POLICY: allowedcurves has wrong type!
POLICY: allowedmgfs has wrong type!
POLICY: allowedkdfs has wrong type!
POLICY: allowedprfs has wrong type!
POLICY: Failed to open &lt;file>: &lt;strerror>
POLICY: Could not allocate policy private data!
POLICY: Strength definition &lt;file> failed to parse!
POLICY: Failed to open &lt;file>: &lt;strerror>
POLICY: Policy definition &lt;file> failed to parse!

POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_AES_KEY_GEN needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_AES_KEY_WRAP needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_AES_GCM needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_PKCS5_PBKD2 needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKP_PKCS5_PBKD2_HMAC_SHA512 needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: Token-Store encryption method not allowed for slot &lt;slot>!
POLICY VIOLATION: Token-Store requires SHA1 for slot &lt;slot>!
POLICY VIOLATION: Token-Store requires MD5 for slot &lt;slot>!
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_DES3_KEY_GEN needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_AES_KEY_GEN needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: Unknown Token-Store encryption method for slot &lt;slot>!
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_AES_KEY_GEN needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_AES_CBC needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKM_PKCS5_PBKD2 needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: CKP_PKCS5_PBKD2_HMAC_SHA256 needed by Token-Store for slot &lt;slot>
POLICY VIOLATION: Token-Store encryption key too weak for slot &lt;slot>!

read_adapter_config_file: Error: EP 11 config file ''&lt;file>' not found
read_adapter_config_file: Error: EP 11 config file '&lt;file>' is too large
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Expected APQN_ALLOWLIST, APQN_ANY, LOGLEVEL, FORCE_SENSITIVE, 
                          CPFILTER, STRICT_MODE, VHSM_MODE, OPTIMIZE_SINGLE_PART_OPERATIONS, 
                          PKEY_MODE, DIGEST_LIBICA, or USE_PRANDOM keyword, found '&lt;token> 
                          in config file '&lt;file>'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Unexpected end of file found in config file '&lt;file>', 
                          expected 'END' or adapter number
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Expected valid adapter number, found '&lt;token>' 
                          in config file '&lt;file>'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Unexpected end of file found in config file '&lt;file>, 
                          expected domain number (2nd number)
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Expected valid domain number (2nd number), found '&lt;token>' 
                          in config file &lt;file>
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Too many APQNs in config file '&lt;file>'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Unexpected end of file found in config file '&lt;file>', 
                          expected LOGLEVEL value
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Invalid LOGLEVEL value '&lt;token>' in config file &lt;file>
read_adapter_config_file: Warning: LOGLEVEL setting is not supported any more. Use opencryptoki 
                          logging/tracing facilities instead.
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Unexpected end of file found in config file '&lt;file>', 
                          expected CP-Filter file name
read_adapter_config_file: Error: CP-Filter config file name '&lt;file>' is too long in 
                          config file '&lt;file>'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Unexpected end of file found in config file '&lt;file>, 
                          expected libica path, 'DEFAULT', or 'OFF'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: libica path '&lt;token>' is too long in config file '&lt;file>'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Unexpected end of file found in config file '&lt;file>', 
                          expected pkey_mode 0 .. 3
read_adapter_config_file: Error: unsupported pkey mode '&lt;token> in config file '&lt;file>'
read_adapter_config_file: Error: At least one APQN mode needs to be present in config file 
                          '&lt;file>': APQN_ALLOWLIST or APQN_ANY
read_adapter_config_file: Error: Only one APQN mode can be present in config file '&lt;file>': 
                          APQN_ALLOWLIST or APQN_ANY
read_adapter_config_file: Error: At least one APQN needs to be defined in config file '&lt;file>'
read_cp_filter_config_file: Warning: EP 11 CP-filter config file '&lt;file>' does not exist, 
                            no filtering will be used
read_cp_filter_config_file: Error: Expected valid control point name or number, 
                            found '&lt;ftoken>' in CP-filter config file '&lt;file>'
read_cp_filter_config_file: Error: Expected valid mechanism name or number, found '&lt;token>' 
                            in CP-filter config file '&lt;file>'
read_cp_filter_config_file: Error: Out of memory while parsing CP-filter config file '&lt;file>'

SHM segment has wrong gid/mode combination (expected: x/0x; got: x/0x)

start_event_thread: pthread_create failed, errno=x

token_specific_init: Error loading library: 'libcsulcca.so' [&lt;dlerror>]

Trace level x is out of range. Tracing disabled.

Token object &lt;file> appears corrupted (ignoring it)

Tspi_Key_GetPubKey failed: rc=x

Username(&lt;name>) too long

Warning: CCA symmetric master key is not yet loaded
Warning: CCA asymmetric master key is not yet loaded 
Warning: Your TPM is not configured to allow reading the public SRK by anyone but the owner. 
         Use tpm_restrictsrk -a to allow reading the public SRK
Warning: Adapter &lt;apqn1> has different control points than adapter &lt;apqn2>, using minimum
Warning: Adapter &lt;apqn1> has a different number of control points than adapter &lt;apqn2>, 
         using maximum
Warning: Adapter &lt;apqn1> has a different API versionversion than the previous CEXxP adapters: x
Warning: Adapter &lt;apqn1> has a different firmware version than the previous CEXxP adapters: x.x
</codeblock>
</section>
<section id="checktracing">
<title>Apply tracing</title>
<p>If you successfully checked all issues as described in the previous sections, you may start to
exploit the <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> tracing capabilities. If a log
level > 0 is activated by setting the environment variable OPENCRYPTOKI_TRACE_LEVEL, then log
entries are written to file <filepath>/var/log/opencryptoki/trace.&lt;process_id></filepath>.
<keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/App_devs"/> may apply the higher tracing log levels 4
and 5. </p>
<p>For detailed information, read <xref href="lxoc_ock_features.dita#lxoc_ock_features/log_trace"
/>.</p>
</section>
<section id="fincheck">
<title>Final check</title>
<p>Finally, if your <keyword conref="lxoc_conref.dita#lxoc_conref/ocrypto"/> environment is
successfully set up, you can check your settings using the <cmdname>pkcsconf</cmdname> utility as
described in <xref href="lxoc_ock_pkcsconf.dita"/>.</p>
</section>
</refbody>
</reference>
<?Pub *0000001770?>
